one of the more enjoyable aspects of asian cinema (or, indeed, most anything done outside these holier-than-thou united states) are the permutations that crop up. in post-world war two japanese manga (comics), for instance, are to be found a veritable endless variety of subjects, many of them handled in uniquely imaginative fashion. the same thing happens in genre film-making, as well; though, again, i'm referring to movies made outside the u.$. (where we're just too "sophisticated" in our close-mindedness to appreciate anything that isn't about or by us). would an american company, for instance, back not one but a series of movies featuring a masked professional wrestler (el santo) or a werewolf (paul naschy) or a real-life martial artist (bruce lee)...? as for television: forget it. while i still love the kung fu series that starred the late david carradine, i've always felt that the americanized version of asian martial arts was- how to put it kindly- a bit lacking. to this very day, there hasn't been a pay-per-view channel to feature asian martial artists playing asian martial artists in asia. (there are lots of soft-core porn masquerading as entertainment shows, but the so-called action channel, for instance, has yet to import or to produce a true martial arts teleseries.) before brother cadfile was investigating murders on the bbc, there was, of all things, at least one kung fu movie that featured a group of martial artists more or less involved in a murder mystery: the 5 deadly venoms. in its own right as fascinating as any other genre-based whodunit (western, cop show, etc.), this martial arts masterpiece stands out as a truly superior piece of work. it's now available from dragon dynasty and the print is beautiful and the dvd commentary by bey logan is exactly the kind of intelligent, thoughtful analysis these gems truly deserve. if you're a martial arts movie fan, rejoice: one of the greatest movie genres of all time (specifically, the martial arts movies of the 1970s and early 1980s) are getting a long-overdue second life (and greatly appreciated second look) on dvd.