of all the kung-fu films made through the 70's and 80's this is one that has developed a real cult following. with the exception of all the films bruce lee starred in this is a film that has stood the test of time and its due to the unique story. an aging kung-fu master tells his last pupil yang tieh (sheng chiang) about five pupils he has trained in the past. all five wore masks and nobody has seen the face of each other and they have all been trained differently. their specialty in kung-fu is the name they have adopted like lizard, snake, centipede, toad and scorpion. the master called them the poison clan and he does not know what has happened to them so he wants tieh to find them and help the ones that are doing good to stop the others that are evil. an old man who was once a member of the poison clan has a map to where he has hidden a lot of money and he seems to be a target. tieh does not know what they look like so he has to mingle in society and try and figure out who they are. tieh has discovered that the snake is hung wen tung (pai wei) and along with tang sen kue (feng lu) who is the centipede they kill a family to find the map. a map is found by a mystery man who turns out to be the scorpion but know one knows who he is. a local policeman named ho yung sin (philip kwok) investigates the murders along with his partner ma chow (chien sun). sin has a friend called li ho (meng lo) who is the toad and they do know of each others identity. the snake bribes the local officials to pin the murders on li ho and while he is in prison he is tortured and killed. when sin finds out he teams up with tieh and together they go to combat tung and kue. <br /><br />this film was directed by cheh chang and he was a very special director when it came to these films. chang was not your run of the mill kung-fu director and his films always had a special quality to them. while most martial arts films deal with revenge chang did not use that as a central theme. even though there is some revenge going on later in this story this film is more complex than that. five men trained by the same master in different ways and wearing masks. then they are all in the same area and not knowing who the other is. very unique story makes this film different from all the others and most of changs stories were in a class all by themselves. i wouldn't exactly put it in the same league as "enter the dragon" because bruce lee was a worldwide icon and the martial arts he exhibited were more authentic looking. this film still has some impossible feats like clinging to sides of walls and all the flipping through the air but this film isn't necessarily about fight scenes. its more about the intrigue of the story and the characters that are involved. that alone makes this different from all the other kung-fu films. very well made with a unique story.