this documentary follows the lives of big and little edie beale, a mother and daughter, who lived as recluses in their family mansion in east hampton, ny from the mid-50s through the late 70s. by the time the filmmakers find them, the mansion is falling apart, and the women, one 78 and the other 56, share a squalid room. the older edie beale is the aunt of jackie kennedy onassis and the younger is her first cousin. the women were originally going to be evicted from the house due to its decrepit condition, but jackie sent them money for repairs so they could keep living there.<br /><br />at times this movie can seem exploitative, as neither woman seems in the best of mental health, but at other times, the movie is hard to look away from. "little" edie blames her mother for her current state, and her mother fires back that edie was never going to be the success she thought she was. "little" edie often seems trapped in the past, focused on choices she made decades ago, and loves showing off pictures from her youth, where she clearly was a beautiful debutante. her mother seems more resigned to her fate, to live out the rest of her life in terrible conditions. there are definite hints of the glamorous life both women once lead, from the pictures that show a happy family, to the grand portrait of the older edie next to her bed. from what we see of the house, most of the rooms in it are empty, the walls are cracking and falling apart, and "little" edie leaves food in the attic for the racoons to feast on. and of course there are numerous cats running around.<br /><br />at its heart, this documentary is incredibly sad. while neither woman seems particularly depressed by their lot in life, the squalor they live in is utterly awful. it's not particularly clear if there is even running water in the house, and you get the impression that they have essentially been abandoned by their family.<br /><br />however, as a documentary, the film is a wonder to behold, and is highly recommended.