was this based on a comic-book? a video-game? a drawing by a 3 year-old? <br /><br />there is nothing in this movie to be taken seriously at all; not the characters, not the dialog, not the plot, not the action. nothing. we have high-tech international terrorists/criminals who bicker like pre-school kids, stallone's man-of-steel-type resilience towards ice-cold weather, dialog so dumb that it's sometimes almost hilarious, and so on. even the codename that the bad guys use is dumb ("tango-tango"). a film that entertains through some suspense, good action-sequences, and a nice snowy mountainous setting. oh, yes: and the unintentional humour.<br /><br />the film opens with some truly bad and unconvincing gay banter between our go-lucky and happy characters who are obviously having a "swell" time. then comes a sweat-inducing failed-rescue part, which should make anyone with fear-of-heights problems want to pull their hair out. and then we have some more bad dialog, and after that some more great action. this is the rhythm of the film in a nutshell. <br /><br />stallone's melodramatic exchange with turner, when they meet after a long time, is so soapy, so clich'ed, so fake, and so bad that it should force a chuckle out of any self-respecting viewer. soon after this display of awful dialog-writing, we are witnesses to a spectacular and excellently shot hijack of an airplane. the entire action is one big absurdity, but it's mindless fun at its best. although the rest of the action is exciting and fun, the airplane scenes are truly the highlight of the film. after the landing, our master-criminals seek for a guide and end up with stallone and rooker. they send stallone to fetch the first case of money, but somehow they do everything to make it as difficult as possible for him to reach it; they take most of his clothes off (so he can freeze) and they won't give him the equipment he needs (so he can fall off). do these gangsters want their money fetched or not??? very silly. apparently they don't trust stallone, but surely they know that they can always black-mail him by using rooker as a hostage. nevertheless, our gangsters make stallone's climb difficult, if for no logical reasons then to at least show us how truly evil they are - lest there be any doubts. and for those who might still doubt how evil the bad guys are, they overact, brag, and snicker in a truly evil manner. everyone convinced? good. you'd better be. otherwise the writers will throw in a mass execution of twenty school children, just to make sure that the evilness of the bad guys is crystal-clear to everyone.<br /><br />the old guy who flies the chopper... how the hell did he fall for the trap? firstly, he must have been warned by the mtv airhead about the criminals, and secondly, he must have heard stallone's and rooker's voices on the walkie-talkies. a whole bunch of idiotic verbal exchanges take place, with lithgow having the questionable honour of getting most of the silly lines. "get off my back!" lithgow: "i haven't even started climbing on your back." or, lithgow to stallone: "we had a deal, but now we only have each other!" and as for lithgow's gang of murderers: these guys never seem to want to kill immediately. they are very creative about it; they philosophize, pretend that they are playing football with your body, and so on. <br /><br />stallone co-wrote this thing. i have no idea what drugs he was on when he did it. i'd hate to think the script is this bad because of a low i.q.