this film centers on four criminals, locked away in a prison who desire escape from their cell, hoping that a mysterious book of black magic, penned by a former inmate around 1920, named danvers who wanted to use spells to keep his skin young.<br /><br />carr`ere's(g'erald laroche)criminal business tactics(shortcuts)have landed him in prison with three oddball cell-mates..a transsexual brute marcus(clovis cornillac), marcus' love-toy p^aquerette(dimitri rataud)who eats objects he touches(..and is in prison for eating his six-month old sister)and obeys his charge as if "he" were his mother, and the scholarly lassalle(philippe laudenbach)who doesn't read, or eat breakfast(..the latter being that he murdered his wife during that time of the day). the film follows carr`ere as he reads from the book, attempting to understand it's meanings hoping to find an exit from his prison. carr`ere loves his child, and for a while believes his wife will get him out early on bail. when she betrays him, carr`ere begins to slowly seethe with hate, and longing to see and hold his beloved son. carr`ere's toughest critic is marcus, who longs to be fully female, while still folding to several masculine traits, such as working out and taking a leak standing up. he talks tough and uses his muscle as a type of fear tactic, although deep inside is a world of vulnerability. p^aquerette is completely under marcus' control and behaves like a canine to it's master..there's even an alarming scene where p^aquerette breast-feeds from marcus! lassalle is an unraveling mystery, opening up for us to slowly understand his ulterior motives and what lies within his possibly sinister brain. clearly intellectual, and holding possible secrets from the others, lassalle is actually the one who keeps the motivation of pursuing the secrets of the book going. soon, those who aren't a threat to the book seek their "true" escape, not as much from the cell of four walls, but the cell that imprisons their true desires. after a certain murder, the book is thrown from the room with a very fascinating character entering the film with a camcorder as if he were a new occupant..who is this person and how does he understand the power of a book tosses away, and better yet, how to use it? a constant in this film is each of the prisoners often seen throughout looking out their window into the world just out of reach.<br /><br />i'm glad i had a chance to watch this film. it does play out like "monkey's paw", the characters get what they desire, but a price must be met. there's gore in the film, startling moments of graphic violence, but, in my opinion, this is first and foremost a story-driven tale. the gore is a product of what the book unleashes. one of the group gets his limbs twisted while suspended in the air, while a grisly opening act displays the carnage left in the wake of one man's desire. we see danver's fate at the end, with a magnificent special effects sequence regarding an infant melting away. lassalle's fate is a masterful effects sequence. i will say that mal'efique, through eric valette's well paced direction, always kept my attention, and, for being such an isolated movie(..about 95 % of the film takes place in a singular location, the prison cell)it never seems to drag. i guess that's a testament to interesting actors and fascinating characterizations, not to mention a compelling story using the supernatural to drive them.