aside from a few titles and the new sherlock holmes movie, i think i've watched every movie guy ritchie has directed. twice. needless to say, i'm a big fan and revolver is one of the highlighted reasons why. this movie is a very different approach from ritchie, when you look at it comparatively with lock, stock... and snatch. revolver sets us up for a psychological thriller of sorts as a gambling con finds himself at the mercy of a set of foes he didn't expect and a guided walk for redemption that he didn't know he needed. along with seeing andr'e benjamin of outkast fame strut his acting ability, other standout acts are ray liotta playing the maniacal mr. d/macha and mark strong playing sorter, the hit-man.<br /><br />after being sent to prison by a tyrannous casino owner, macha, jake uses his time in solitary to finesse a plot to humiliate macha and force his hand in compensating him for the seven years he spent. when he wins a card game and amasses a decent sum from macha, jake finds himself on the brink of death as he collapses and is diagnosed with an incurable disease that's left him with three days to live. a team of loan sharks, however, have an answer for him and a ticket to life- only if he gives them all the money he has and relents to working for them, all in a ploy to both take macha down and show jake how dangerous he has made himself to himself. along with having the air of death loom, and a pair of loan sharks having a field day with his money, jake also has to deal with having a hit put out on him, which introduces sorter - a hit-man under macha's employ. the depth with the story comes when jake realizes that some co- convicts he spent time with in solitary may very-well be the loan shark team out to take him for all he has by crafting all of the unfortunate events that jake seems to find his way into. when faced with this reality though, zack (vincent pastore) and avi show jake just how twisted he has become from being in solitary, having only the company of his mind and his ego then makes it so that their actual existence is elusive even to jake. the movie unravels to a humbling process for both jake and macha as they both come to grips with their inner demons.<br /><br />the style of the movie is top-notch as you get the gritty feel of the crime world represented and the characters it includes. although a lot of nods at ritchie's previous films are here it still has a presence of its own from the dialogue, the sets and the experimental take on the gangster genre. it's also a great trip on humility and recognizing when you can easily let your ego or a preset notion mask you ability to accomplish what you want or overcome what you should. the characters are well crafted in this movie with all sides being fleshed out and, true to ritchie fashion, they're all tied in by some underhandedness that throws a wrench in everyone's affairs. i could and would like to go on about this film and its unique nuances but i don't want to take too much away from it if you haven't seen it yet.<br /><br />it may take a few sittings to get through all the intricate layers but it's a great movie and it should be seen. if you're lucky and you haven't seen the watered-down us release, see if you can get the original uk version as it will make for a great discussion piece among friends as you try to puzzle in your take. i saw it with my crew around early-2006 and we're still talking about it with little things we've picked up on today. it has garnered its cult status, and it's well- deserved as the film where ritchie stepped out the box and broke his norm a bit.<br /><br />standout line: "fear or revere me, but please, think i'm special. we share an addiction. we're approval junkies."