the sopranos is probably the most widely acclaimed tv series ever, so naturally my expectations were through the roof, and yet the show surpassed them. i love the mafia and crime genre in film and i enjoy following the compelling stories set in these worlds, but this is so much more. 86+ hours of material gives the story a chance to not only be one of the most thrilling and unpredictable mafia/action stories, but also to be a great family drama, a shocking character study, a laugh-out-loud comedy, a brilliant psychological examination dealing with the nature of good and evil, and an intellectual arty collaboration of representative dreams and hallucinations all in one. david chase's epic series manages to accomplish all of this and more, and cements hbo as the closest tv can get to cinematic perfection, paving the road for a number of other series to continue blowing audiences away.<br /><br />realism is present when it is needed, but chase's decisions to depart from it for effect on occasion for "dream episodes" and the like only adds more layers to the series. chase--along with a strong writing staff including matthew weiner and terrence winter, future creators of mad men and boardwalk empire respectively--turns new jersey into an intricate universe full of the greatest cast of characters i've seen on tv.<br /><br />james gandolfini domineers the show as tony, one of the most groundbreaking characters on tv ever. tony adheres to half of the mobster stereotypes from pop culture, but he defies the other half entirely, and through his family interactions and his therapy sessions with dr. melfi (lorraine bracco, with whom he has a considerable chemistry that ensures that the therapy scenes always have a completely different feel to the rest of the show), we see nearly every side to tony soprano and learn that he is more of an everyman than one would expect.<br /><br />edie falco matches the power of gandolfini's performance as tony's wife carmela. from her mixed feelings about tony's lifestyle, to her suspicions about murders, to her torment over tony's cheating, to her own thoughts about infidelity, carmela runs the gamut of emotions throughout 6 seasons and falco makes her the prime vehicle for the non- mafia viewers to have eyes into such a corrupt world. scenes between tony and carmela provide some of the most heartwrenching and painfully realistic drama ever seen on television.<br /><br />the supporting cast is almost as phenomenal, and a wide array of characters populate the cast over all six seasons, somehow without any redundancies. nancy marchand steals the show as tony's overbearing mother livia, an insight into tony's personality problems and panic attacks. the familiarity of marchand's incessant complaints is almost gruesome since she takes the character so believably far. michael imperioli is christopher, tony's prot'eg'e, whose various poor choices lead him down a road that is painful to watch but brilliantly executed. drea de matteo plays christopher's girlfriend adriana, and is so well- meaning and loving that the dark arc her character takes as she gets too involved with christopher's career. tony sirico is paulie, introduced as the ultimate mafia stereotype and a source of comic, but eventually he becomes one of the most sympathetic and complex characters on the show, and nobody plays true anger better than he. and that's just the tip of the iceberg.<br /><br />familiar faces such as peter bogdanovich, jon favreau, ben kingsley, lauren bacall, will arnett, nancy sinatra, david strathairn, robert patrick, hal holbrook, burt young, and eric mangini make appearances over the course of the show, while names as notable as joe pantoliano, steve buscemi, and steven van zandt have regular roles as main characters in the series. there are 50+ great characters with powerful arcs, and the excitement and tension never let up in any of the various subplots throughout the show.<br /><br />comedic elements and entire episodes filled with brilliant hilarity dilute the powerhouse dramatic intensity of the series, which is so multipurpose that for one reason or enough, the credits of nearly any episode left me somewhat bewildered. the sopranos is the most powerful and addicting series i have seen overall, and its highs are so mindblowing that i would have to call it my favourite show in spite of arguable lows (most of which i disagree with).<br /><br />whether you love or hate the ending, or what you make of it is irrelevant: the discussion it has created is an achievement in itself. the iconic nature of the entire series makes it an essential part of television history. there are multiple elements for anyone to love and marvel at in this show, so if you're thinking of watching something else instead, do yourself a favour and fuhgeddaboutit.