midnight cowboy opens with a run down drive in theater with the voice-over of the main character joe buck (jon voight) singing in the shower. he is singing a cowboy song, the very thing he strives to be. joe picks up his humdrum life living in texas and moves it to new york city with the dream of lots of women, and even more money. he dresses as the epitome of the cowboy, but in a cartoonish fashion, not even his friends take him seriously. he begins his journey on the bus to nyc and we can quickly see how diluted joe is through his interactions with the other passengers. this is primarily a story of joe's realization of the harsh realities of the real world.<br /><br />he starts off as a very na"ive southerner thinking he can make it in nyc just on his good looks. he has no other reason to think otherwise, as they proved helpful in the past; we learn this from the many flashbacks he has. in the beginning the flashbacks are filmed in a way that portrays them as being somewhat whimsical. they are hazy and the voices sound as if they are coming from a great distance, as they are, they are coming out of his past. however, as joe delves deeper and deeper into the reality of the harsh atmosphere of nyc we see more of his past, which is no longer whimsical but gritty, filmed in black and white with rapid editing to portray the cruel nature of the past events. this is especially seen in the flashback of him and his girlfriend being assaulted, and her being raped. in one of these flashbacks we see a building being torn down brick by brick. this mirrors the way in which joe himself is falling apart; the naivet'e that he once carried is falling off of him. he and ratso (dustin hoffman) are living in squalor, and barely able to get food to eat; joe is realizing he cannot live off of his looks, that there is a gritty underbelly of new york that he didn't envision. his subconscious mirrors the way in which his real life is panning out.<br /><br />ratso is also serves as a kind of mirror to joe, but in an opposite way; ratso is joe's foil. joe is a handsome, strong man who, for the most part, has a good outward appearance. ratso, on the other hand, from the very first time we see him sitting next to joe in the bar we can tell he is the opposite. he is short, dark, and always coated with a sheen of sweat. he understands how the world works, that it is unforgiving, and sometimes no matter how hard you try you will fail; just as his father did. they are living in the same world, the same apartment even, but they understand things on a completely different level.<br /><br />the theme of alienation, one that is common of this era, is very apparent in this film. neither joe nor ratso fit into the culture surrounding them. joe feels trapped in texas and moves to nyc where he is still very much an outsider. ratso, living in the cold of nyc, wishes to move to sunny florida where he thinks he will be able to find a good life. even though this is his ideal, in the fantasy we get from ratso's perspective, it is apparent that he knows he will never really fit into society. in said fantasy he is turned on by the people living around him, he is yet again an outsider, alienated from society.<br /><br />it is not until the end that the gap between joe and ratso begins to narrow. joe resorts to violence; he takes on the mentality of this city in order to get money to fund a means of escape for florida for himself and ratso. on the journey we see joe coming out of a store not wearing the cowboy clothes that he is never without in the rest of the film. he is dressed as someone who looks like they are headed to florida for vacation. he dresses ratso the same way; he tires to make them fit into the new society they are entering, but it is to no avail. upon ratso's death on the bus, their fellow passengers once again look them upon as outsiders. even in this new culture they have entered, they cannot escape the alienation they have met at every turn in this film. despite the ratso's death, and joe's continued alienation, the film ends with the hope that joe can take his new knowledge of how the world works and create a better life than he would have had as a hustler in nyc. midnight cowboy is an excellent film portraying the harsh reality of society, and alienation, with stellar performances by both voight and hoffman.