horror is perhaps one of two genres where logic doesn't always win out over imagination. we all know that killers like freddy, jason, michael and even leatherface shouldn't be able to sustain the amount of pain they do and still live to fight another day. most of us don't believe that zombies really rise from the dead to stalk people and eat their brains. and let's hope that at least some people know that when you enter places like funhouses and old mansions that unspeakable crimes are not going to be perpetrated against them. this is where imagination wins out over fact. horror, and most films in general, requires us to suspend our disbelief for a couple of hours and just go with the flow. this usually isn't a problem when i watch bouncing balls being hurled down the stairs at george c. scott or when i see an unseen force stalking three amateur film makers in the woods near burketsville. but what i do have a problem digesting ( without wanting to regurgitate ) is when a film has a killer like the one in this film. to give away who the killer is would actually be a huge spoiler and it would take away all fun of watching it for yourself, but just suffice to say that i actually enjoyed this film right up to final scene when the killer is revealed. there are too many events in the film that transpire for it to make any sense that the killer is who it is. but the 90 minutes prior to this point is a well done, suspenseful, blood soaked film directed with panache and skill by john hough. if the film would have offered me a different killer, then i would actually be raving about it. this may sound like a completely asinine reason to discredit the film, but believe me, anyone who has seen the film is almost sure to agree with me.<br /><br />john cassevetes plays dr. sam cordell. he and his daughter jenny ( played beautifully by erin flannery ) have just recently moved to this small new england town. cordell is a recent widow and it is unclear how his wife died. we see several flashback scenes where a mystery woman ( one can only presume it is his wife ) is laying backside on the ground during a torrential downpour. her face is bloodied and her eyes are closed. again, i am not sure who this woman is and what relevance she has to the story but she is there anyway. cassevetes, it has to be mentioned, is strange to say the least. cordell is a loving father but his love for his daughter seems to be a little more than just parental. there are a few scenes that hint of incestuous possibilities. it never comes to fruition but it just seems to be omnipotent, but somewhere just beneath the proverbial rug. thankfully the film never really explores this element of the relationship but it does make you a little uneasy. <br /><br />casevettes seems like a cross between the porno actor john leslie and screen great james caan. he has a deceptive smile and a virile, commanding voice that makes you sit up and take notice. but he also looks like he is about to disrobe during a business luncheon in every scene. he just has that slimy, disingenuous, phlegmatic, uneasy way about him. he never really looks like he can be trusted in this film. i guess that is a credit to the writers, the director and to cassevetes himself. there was always something that just bothered me about his character from the get-go. <br /><br />the story begins on an excellent note as two would be lovers are swimming in the local quarry. there is a rickety old changing shed near by and as we can see, something or someone is watching them. when the young man briefly disappears to get something from the truck, the young woman wanders into the shed, just to play a prank. once she is there, she is attacked. the young man dashes to the shed to find her and he is impaled with a board and nail. hough shrewdly sets us up for the payoff pitch when the young man comes in. he looks frantically scours the room and spots his would-be lover bleeding in the corner, and then smacko, the guy gets it. it is a very tense moment and it starts the film off on the correct note.<br /><br />also introduced into the tangled wed of a story is a young man named tim that seems to be having strange dreams of a faceless woman that is bound in a torture chamber surrounded by men with cloaks covering their faces. tim seems to think that his dreams have something to do with the murders because every time a murder takes place, he has another dream. toss in a quiet and turbid grandmother, a meretricious female reporter and a strong yet venal local sheriff and you have all the ingredients necessary to create the makings of an imbroglio in the small town of galen.<br /><br />throughout the film more people are massacred but most of the time, the males are slaughtered with extreme prejudice and the females are raped. this is my first feeble (and careful) attempt to tell you that this is what left me unconvinced with the denouement. it just didn't strike the right chord.<br /><br />the incubus is a well done film. it is tense, tight and even most of the performances are very well done. i was intrigued by the dreams that tim was having and i was anxious to find out what significance they had to the story and ultimately to the murders. but when you get through all that was good in the film, you are still left with that acerbic taste in your mouth. and bitter pills are always more difficult to swallow than sweet ones. <br /><br />7 out of 10-- this could have been a nine. too bad.