if you ever have the chance to see sandra bernhard live in person, you better move on it sweetie. i saw her last year in los angeles at the opening of her everything bad and beautiful tour and i still can't believe that i was in the first row, and lucky enough to experience such a phenomenal show. she is now in new york with the show and it coincides with the release of her groundbreaking stunner, "without you i'm nothing". we have lost richard pryor, lenny bruce, nina simone, but sandra is still with us. patti smith is missing in action, but not sandra. barbara streisand continues to peep her head out once in awhile but sandra more than makes up for where babs leaves off. okay, i want it known, ms. bernhard is a little of these influential entertainers and more. i really wanted to push this film because of its truth, honesty, humor, eclectic songs (ranging from laura nyro, sylvester, nina simone, prince), and a script that defines the decadence, joy, sadness, ups and downs of the 70's and 80's. it is my opinion that many (and i mean, many) comics have lifted, okay outright stolen, so much from this show if not from sandra herself. i won't name names but come on, people, you and i know who they are. see, the thing is, bernhard plays by her own rules. this movie shows, as does her live performances, that she is a performer who has stayed true to the old school of show business, as well as pushing forward. her performances are reminiscent of smoky jazz clubs (during the time of miles davis,coltrane,monk), 70's tv shows, intimate cabaret acts and concerts that are reminiscent of everyone from judy garland to joan jett. most comedians couldn't even touch where sandra is coming from or going to. so, here i was, a year ago, watching sandra at the silent movie theater, in total awe and joy. i wanted to meet her after the show, give her something that meant something to me, that, hopefully would mean something to her. but i listen to my copy of giving til it hurts, and just thank her in a prayer, of sorts for making me laugh, making me think, making me feel. you can't deny this lady's presence and you certainly cannot deny the talent that just rushes from the stage. she's still here, damn it, even after the release of without you i'm nothing, some 15 years ago. and she looks great, by the way. i know this firsthand, walking from the theater one audience member said to another, "she is so funny..and she still looks incredible!!! if you can't experience her live yet, please see this movie. as for me, i do hope that sandra will see this. you've meant a heck of a lot to me, gotten me through some tough crazy times. if you can send me an email, please do. if not, knowing that you are still kicking it out and will continue to do so, is enough for me. come on, people, give it up for the lady!!!!