"pet sematary" is an adaptation from the stephen king novel of the same title. the story follows the creeds - an all american, middle-class family, who move into a house out in the country. the family consists of louis and rachel, and their two young children, ellie and their toddler son, gage. the house couldn't be better, and the family meets a strange but friendly old man, jud, who lives across the road. he leads them down an old path into the woods one day where a pet graveyard lies - filled with a huge amount of animal graves. and just beyond there, lies a sacred indian burial ground that seems to possess a strange power. when the family cat, church, is killed, louis sees it fit to bury him in the pet cemetery - and strangely enough, soon after, church returns to life. but there's something evil about him now, he isn't the same cat he used to be. and when a tragic accident takes the life of young gage, louis decides to apply the same concept in hopes of reviving his dead son... unfortunately, he gets more than he bargained for.<br /><br />having read stephen king's novel, i can say that the book is much better than the film. not to say the movie is bad, because it isn't - the book is just a little bit better. the real strength in this film lies in it's story, which is both bizarre but extremely original, something that king's stories are typically known for. the script is very well adapted from the story, and while it minorly differs in some aspects, it's a pretty good page-to-screen transformation. there are a few plot holes here and there, nothing major though. besides that, this movie is actually pretty scary, and it succeeds in it's intention to do so. there are some really disturbing scenes throughout the film, and i'd have to say that the flashback sequence of rachel's sister zelda is the number one. honestly, that is one of the most disgusting, disturbing things i've ever seen in a horror film - it's not gory and bloody, it's just flat out sickening. one thing's for sure, that image won't leave your head anytime soon.<br /><br />the performances in this film were all very up to par and i really had no problem there. this film is actually on the gory side, there are plenty of nasty little sequences to please all of the gore hounds out there, including the shocker of an ending. i really liked the way they ended the film, it was abrupt and somewhat inconclusive, but it worked better that way with all things considered.<br /><br />overall, "pet sematary" is a good horror movie that i'd recommend to those who are fans of either stephen king or just fans of the genre in general. the story is the film's greatest asset and it's a creepy one too. one of the better stephen king adaptations i'd say. 7/10.