i have the entire weissmuller tarzan series on dvd (fully restored editions) & i never tire of watching them. my personal favorite is "tarzan and his mate", due entirely (well almost entirely) to maureen o'sullivan's costume and the occasional flashes of her genital area beneath that leather flap hanging in front. before anyone claims that a - it wasn't really her, or b - it wasn't really what it looks like, let me say that i have watched it numerous time, in high zoom mode, and trust me...it is her, and she is completely naked underneath that costume...several times, especially during the lion attack at the end, careful viewing in slow motion and maximum zoom will reveal that she was shaved except for a tiny patch of dark hair covering her labia...there is no mistake about that at all. as to the swimming scene being a body double in a "skin" suit, yes, it is a double, but she is not wearing any "skin" suit or anything else...again, slow motion and maximum zoom shows everything to those who want to see it. now, that controversy out of the way, let's move on the actual movie...i thought the script was really well thought out and written tightly...the action sequences were simply great, although it is obviously a stuntman riding the rhino, weissmuller actually wrestles the big male lion...the use of background shots that were second unit stuff from africa is very well blended with the studio & us locations making it sometimes hard to tell which is which. don't complain too much though, remember that 90% of all films is phony anyway, so just relax and enjoy the damned thing with a big bowl of popcorn, some cold beer, and a fresh pack of smokes...a sexy and willing girlfriend/wife isn't out of line either...lol. oh...one final word about nudity...at the very beginning, while the white hunters are speaking dialogue, keep your eyes on the background extras...there are several good shots of nude african girls (obviously shot on location) behind them. one more thing, the movie is not racist by the standards of the 1930's until the 1960's...that's the way colored people were thought of and portrayed back then. shaft hadn't even been thought about at that time, nor would audiences have accepted any other portrayals of them at the time in history. safaris actually did use natives carrying luggage on their heads...and tiny's character did die a heroic death trying to save the white hunters and jane. as a matter of fact, it wasn't until gene autry treated the native americans and colored people in his westerns like real human beings that hollywood began to see that it was okay to do so.