well, i'd heard from somewhere that ossessione is a precursor to the italian film genre, and particular favourite of mine, the 'giallo'...but actually, aside from the fact that this is a thriller that was made in italy; the two have pretty much no relation. in the sixties and seventies, italian film-makers would get themselves a reputation for ripping off just about every successful american film released. they've not done that here, but ossessione does follow almost the exact same story as the later american film 'the postman always rings twice', without giving the book's author, james m. cain, so much as a credit! anyway, the plot focuses on gino costa, a handsome drifter who, by chance, stumbles upon a caf'e where a woman named giovanna bragana works. he soon learns that she's married to giuseppe; a big fat annoying man, whom giovanna can't stand to have even touching her. he wants the pair of them to run away together, but she's not so keen on the idea. however, fate ends up intervening and her plan to have her husband murdered is successful...<br /><br />despite the fact that the film loses some credibility for not crediting the author whose story it's based on, it has to be said that director luchino visconti implements the film noir style well, and in a way i even prefer the atmosphere of this film to some of the bigger american noir classics. the story is, as you would expect, extremely strong and the visconti manages to pull good performances out of his cast. visconti drags the film out a little bit too much, however, and with a running time of almost 135 minutes, i felt that the story was too thin to warrant this kind of length. i almost feel guilty for levelling all this criticism at ossessione as it is a good film, but it's not a 'great' film. the relationship between the two central characters is never really explored properly, and it seems like the film is keener to distract us from it rather than let us into the characters' heads. there's not much mystery to the plot as we pretty much always know what's going on, and by not always focusing on the characters themselves; the film is not as interesting as it could have been. still, it makes for an interesting viewing and comes recommended for that reason...although it's not as good as the 1946 version of the same james m. cain classic.