the dazzling seventeen-minute dance sequence of george gershwin's 1928 orchestral piece, "an american in paris", is an indisputable masterwork. choreographed with precision and unparalleled flair by gene kelly, the vibrant combination of color, music and dance is still eye-poppingly startling as the piece is broken down into scenes inspired by selected master artists - dufy in the opening place de la concorde piece, manet in the flower market, utrillo in a paris street, rousseau at the fair, vincent van gogh in the spectacular place de l'opera piece, and toulouse-lautrec for the moulin rouge where kelly wears his famous white bodysuit. the 97 minutes that precede this finale are not as exciting, not by a long shot, but there are certain charms to be had in viewing the entire 1951 oscar-winning musical.<br /><br />director vincente minnelli and screenwriter alan jay lerner have fashioned a surprisingly sophisticated if rather slight romantic story focused on jerry mulligan, a former g.i. who has remained in paris after the end of wwii trying to make a living as a painter. with his braggadocio manner and athletic dancing style, gene kelly can be concurrently ingratiating and irritating as a screen personality, but he seems to find his oeuvre as the carefree jerry. the love-triangle plot is focused on jerry's involvement with milo roberts, a self-proclaimed art patron but a sexual predator when it comes to young artists. on their first date in a crowded montmartre nightclub, jerry unapologetically falls for lise, a young woman who turns out to be the fianc'ee of henri, a professional entertainer and friend of jerry's pal, adam, an out-of-work concert pianist. romantic complications ensue until the inevitable ending but not before several classic gershwin songs are performed.<br /><br />the best of these is the most imitated - a swooningly romantic song and dance to "our love is here to stay" along a faux-seine river in a blue hazy mist with yellow fog lights. the way kelly and leslie caron circle each other is transcendent as they approach each other tentatively at first and then synchronize beautifully to the music leading to the final clinch. few films have so elegantly and succinctly shown two people falling in love. "i got rhythm" and "s'wonderful" spotlight kelly's nimble tap-dancing and agreeable singing, while "embraceable you" is danced impressively by caron in a five-scene montage of henri's all-over-the-map description of lise to adam. designed to show off caron's dancing versatility, the sequence is similar to the one in "on the town" where vera-ellen showed off her considerable dancing skills when kelly's sailor character described his multi-faceted vision of miss turnstiles.<br /><br />as lise, the nineteen year-old caron (in her first film) dances superbly throughout and handles her role with unformed charm with her acting talent not to bloom for several years. looking quite glamorous, nina foch plays older as the manipulative milo and manages to be likable enough for us to care about her fate, while oscar levant is just his sardonic self as adam. performing an elegant "i'll build a stairway to paradise", george gu'etary plays henri so agreeably that you feel bad that he does lose the girl at the end. this is not the best all-around mgm musical, but there is certainly enough movie magic to make this quite worthwhile. the 2000 dvd contains a fairly pristine print but little else in terms of extras.