i knew absolutely nothing about chocolat before my viewing of it. i didn't know anything about the story, the cast, the director, or anything about the film's history. all i knew was it was a highly-acclaimed french film. had i known more, i probably wouldn't have viewed the picture with an open mind. on paper, the premise doesn't sound interesting to me. had i known what chocolat was about ahead of time, my interest while watching would have been limited. however, not knowing about the story helped me enjoy it. throughout, i had no clue has to where the story would go, what the characters would do, and what the end result would be. it was, if nothing else, not a predictable film. indeed, it could have been as the story is told in flashbacks. telling a story in flashbacks is often a risky move on the part of the filmmakers. since the lead character is seen in present day, the audience knows she will remain alive. by using the flashback technique, director claire denis is able to ensure the audience that the young girl makes it to adulthood without any serious physical damage, giving the viewer the sense that chocolat is a story more about emotions than what is on the outside. a lesser filmmaker would give france a haggard-looking face, one that screams of a confused and unusual childhood. instead, denis presents france as a beautiful girl, someone who looks fine on the outside. <br /><br />it could be argued that chocolat is more about france's mother since she is given far more screen time, though i believe it is ultimately about france. to me, what chocolat is really about is how a mother's actions affect her daughter. it is about how parents' behavior stays with their offspring. france is not ruined by her mother's actions in the story, yet her mother's actions clearly made an impression on france. had france not been affected at all by her mother's actions, the flashback aspect would be irrelevant. <br /><br />for a movie that deals with two time periods, the past and the present, chocolat was a very well paced, there were no scene of excess fat. none of the scenes felt gratuitous or out of the place. the film had nice rhythm, the editing crisp, leaving only what was necessary to tell the story. with a well told story, solid editing, and organized directing, chocolat is one of the better french films i have seen. it was responsible for launching claire denis' career and with good reason: it's an incredible directorial debut.