there are two distinct ways to enjoy this snappily written, seminal tv show (the "godfather" to x-files and buffy, etc.); as a monster show (it scared the hell out of me when i was a kid!), or as a well-written/acted gumshoe/film-noir. it works on both levels. the scariness may have been diluted over the years (it was made in the mid-70s), but i was pleasantly surprised upon rediscovering the show (via dvd) that i actually enjoy it more now for the latter reasons. the late darren mcgavin is karl kolchak, an eccentric, tenacious, rumpled newsman/monster-hunter who, in pursuit of a story, always finds a supernatural angle; much to the pain of kolchak's over-stressed, put-upon boss tony vincenzo(played with tremendous world-weariness by the also late, great simon oakland; you can practically feel the pain of his budding ulcers!). the interplay between these characters is crackling and witty (much like star trek's spock and mccoy, only more acidic!). over the course of two pilot tv movies and a one-season series, kolchack fought vampires, robots, werewolves, witches, zombies, government conspiracies, aliens, and ancient legends (sounds like the entire 9 yr. run of the x-files! in one season!). and kolchak did it first! and as for composer gil melle's cool, partly-whistled main title music... well, x-files creator chris carter calls mike snow's (very similar) x-files main title theme an 'homage.' both themes work well; leave it at that. and unlike many modern horror/sci-fi shows, most of kolchak's monsters are shown in shadow, and in quick cuts(effectively, and sometimes thankfully; as some of them do not hold up to modern scrutiny; but some still do). modern horror shows take note: less is more! one of the few flaws of the show (and it's a small one) is the over-use of sunny, california locales passing for windy city chicago. night gallery had the same issue; unavoidable for a modest-budget, l.a. based show. and some of the supporting characters seem to fall into what are (now) viewed as clich'es (the effeminate reporter, ron updike, always used for comic relief; sweet, old lady/advice columnist emily). but, they all do have their moments to shine (unlike many supporting tv characters since, clich'e or not!). kolchak is a timeless show, that serves as a template for many that followed. and carl kolchak is one of the richest characters ever written for a horror genre tv show (agent mulder's real dad). and as a footnote, i tried watching a few episodes of the new, "re-imagining" of the show. it's an x-files clone (a copy of a copy?). and a bad one, at that. carl kolchak is now a model-pretty, angsty 30-something (played dismally by a boring stuart townsend). and giving him a scully-type partner is also a lame idea; it undermines kolchak as a lone, don quixote crusader! and kolchak and vincenzo getting along? where's the tension? the interplay? that they chose to hang the kolchak name on this regurgitated bit o' crap is a prime example of how not to do a remake: take a beloved cult series, scrape off everything unique about it, drain it of all character and color (but keep the name! need that cult cred!), and voil`a! instant re-hash! it gets an 'f' in 're-imaginings 101'! this new version deserved the axe! stick with the short-lived, but classic original. it truly gets better with age.