the original movie, the odd couple, has some wonderful comic one-liners. the entire world it seems knows the story of neurotic neat-freak felix ungar and funny, obnoxious, slob oscar madison. this paring of mismatched roommates created one of the most successful tv series of all time as well as countless, not anywhere near as good, imitations.<br /><br />the odd couple movie has some wonderful jokes about oscar's apartment and his sloppy habits. he says, "who wants food?" one of his poker player buddies asks, "what do ya got?" oscar says, "i got brown sandwiches and green sandwiches." "what's the brown?" it's either very new cheese or very old meat!" i also love the line about oscar's refrigerator, "it's been out of order for two weeks, i saw milk standing in there that wasn't even in a bottle!" there is no question that walter matthau's oscar madison is a joy to watch on screen. he's almost as good as jack klugman's version in the tv series.<br /><br />the problem with the movie is jack lemmon's felix ungar. jack makes a very, very, honest effort at the role. the problem is that he makes felix so depressing and down-trodden that he becomes more annoying than comical. tony randall's performance in the series, brought the kind of humor, warmth, and sensitivity, to felix's character, which lemmon's portrayal lacks. tony's felix unger obviously could be annoying some of the time. however, in the tv series, it related to specific situations where the annoyance was needed in the storyline. jack's felix ungar, (note the different spelling) in the movie, seems to never be happy, fun, or interesting. the movie felix ungar is a roommate that drives you up the wall, all the time.<br /><br />the movie still has great moments that withstand the test of time, the "famous" meatloaf fight is one of the greatest scenes ever! one of the other great examples of felix's "little notes" on oscar's pillow will be remembered forever. however, there are some darker sides where oscar goes over the top, his "crying" near the end after bawling out felix, and a scene involving felix's linguine dinner, (although lightened by a funny line.) seem more depressing than comical.<br /><br />perhaps there wasn't enough time to see the lighter side of these characters that made the series so memorable in the movie. the beginning 20 minutes are very boring. the same issue occurs with felix's conversation with the pidgeon sisters. the movie's ending is predictable and too pat. there's very little care or compassion for each of them by the other. the result is that the darker side of the film leads to a lot of depression and anger, rather than comedy, unless you are watching the great scenes described above. it appears that jack lemmon's monotone persona of felix brings the film down, rather than enhances or embraces the comedy between the characters.<br /><br />it really took the 1970's tv series to make the odd couple the best that it could be. the original film is still very good. however, the tv series is much better.