great little thriller. i was expecting some type of silly horror movie but what i got was tight short thriller that waste none of our time. mostof these movies we have to get into the back characters stories so we will either feel sympathy for them or hatred when people start getting killed. o such foolishness here. yes you see a few characters but they really only interact with the principals. such as the husband wife at the motel whose room was canceled. we saw them so we could just how efficient the lisa character was and how inefficient the new hotel clerk was. we see the little girl simply because she will have a very small but important role later in the movie when all heck breaks loose. the flight atrendants because we need on in particular to move the plot ahead. the bad guy in particular needs her in the beginning of the flight. the rude guy in the airport was important to the movie too. the only 2 characters that were just 5 liners with no use to the plot were the two young guys on the plane. that was clever because i thought they would have something to do with plot. from the first scene to the last the woman character a young hotel executive named lisa is in charge. even when jackson shows his true colors she doesn't panic. she thinks what she can do to stall time. any other movie the smart executive women would be acting like idiots. but not this one. it was a very short movie and i was waiting for the usual plot devices to kick in because the movie seemed to be coming to its conclusion fast. thankfuly none of them were used. the new hotel clerk did not do the usual called and told her what to do, which is panic drop the phone and run out of the hotel without saying anything, or question your boss and tell her she had to much to drink and just dismiss her. was craven should do more of these types of movies. also one last comment. brian cox is in the movie but i had not one clue who he was. i had to come over here to see that he is lisa's father. he is completely unrecognizable.