there's a theory of time that posits that all the moments that ever existed and will exist, actually exist right now. it's a bit too much to wrap your head around, but perhaps a bit of a comfort to those who wish they could go back to a simpler time and place. for barbara jean trenton (ida lupino), that time was twenty five years earlier, the mid 1930's when her youth and glamor held the greatest promise. for my part, if i could travel through time, it would be back to the 1950's when i grew up. maybe to a place like willoughby, but that's another episode.<br /><br />one thing that wouldn't be so special about 1959 would involve dealing with all that clunky machinery just to watch an episode of "the twilight zone". how many reels do you think it would take to catalog the entire series, and then find a particular story you wanted to watch? i guess you have to consider the trade offs, convenience versus simplicity, having it right now or taking the time to spool it up to the exact spot where the story begins. popping in a cd has it's advantages.<br /><br />i'm a little surprised that rod serling would pen a story that so closely resembled "sunset boulevard". ida lupino's character mirror imaged norma desmond just a bit too closely to be considered an original concept. martin balsam portrays very much a similar character to erich von stroheim, the husband turned butler who's loyalty is unquestioned. where the story diverges has to do with the way danny (balsam) and sall (ted de corsia) challenge barbara jean to get with reality and clear the cobwebs that paralyze her existence.<br /><br />fortunately for us viewers, ida lupino had no such reservations about taking parts that were 'not big, but a nice showcase'. it's a real treat to watch any episode of "the twilight zone" and get to see who pops up from days gone by. sometimes you get a two-fer, like you have here with lupino and balsam, celebrities who sometimes made their mark before the series began, and sometimes after. combined with the stories that the program produced, it's not surprising that they still manage to entertain so well today.