elvira mistress of the dark (1988): cassandra peterson, daniel greene, william morgan sheppard, susan kellerman, edie mcclug, jeff conaway, phil rubenstein, larry flash jenkins, tress macneille, damita jo freeman, mario celario, william dance, lee mclaughlin, charles woolf, sharon hays, bill cable, joseph arias, scott morris, ira heiden, frank collison, lynne marie stewart, marie sullivan, jack fletcher, robert benedetti, kate brown, hugh gillin, eve smith, raleigh bond, tony burrier, alan dewames, timm hill, read scot, james hogan, derek givens...director james signorelli...screenplay sam egan, john paragon.<br /><br />elvira, mistress of the dark was an 80's tv icon who had her own late night show on cable. she hosted and presented classic american horror films, many of them campy, while providing her own quips and humorous remarks. actress cassandra peterson has to this date ridden on that success. in 1988, her first film was released. playing herself, she's stuck hosting monster movie shows but longs for her own show in las vegas and make big money. her agent manny proves a disappointment. it's not long before she inherits a mansion from a deceased relative, a pet dog and a book of recipes. she comes to claim her inheritance in a small nevada town - she was on her way to vegas and became lost - and soon stirs things up in the sedate community. outspoken conservative town council woman chastity pariah (edie mcclurg) soon sees her as a threat to the decency and values of the small town. her voluptuous figure and winning personality soon draws the youth of the town. she falls for bob redding (daniel greene) the town handyman/carpenter, but before any real relationship can bloom, she finds herself in deep trouble. vincent talbot (william morgan sheppard) an eerie older man who is also set to inherit part of the fortune of elvira's relative is in fact an age-old sorcerer who has a personal vendetta against elvira's aunt and elvira herself. he is aware that the so-called "recipe book" is actually a book of powerful magic, a power he wishes to claim for himself. he schemes to bring down elvira by having the town burn her at the stake. how will elvira get out of this one ? the movie was no real success at the box office, drawing a crowd of mostly young audiences familiar with the elvira show on cable. truth be told, this is a funny and feel-good movie. the script is chalk full of all kinds of jokes, some bad, some good, lots of sexual innuendo, visual jokes and overall campiness i.e. the hilarious last scene in which elvira has finally got her own strip show in vegas. this film is a cult classic of sorts, catering to elvira fans. you couldn't enjoy this film otherwise. it's also a look back at "pop" culture of the 80's. elvira was as much an icon of the 80's as was alf, vicky the robot, hulk hogan, mr. t and madonna.