many people know how it feels when a loved one is lost. the feelings of pain, grief and sorrow can be unbearable. however, sometimes it is the memories they leave behind that trigger the saddest emotions. this theme is superbly portrayed in the short film 'tulip', directed by the award winning australian actress, rachel griffths. described as a movie 'as much about memories as it is about love', a string of sensitivity and sentimentality is expertly threaded into this triumphant 15 minute film.<br /><br />'tulip' is a beautifully wrought, touching and heart-warming story of a man's journey in coming to terms with the loss of his wife through the relationship he shares with a very special animal, 'tulip'. the film opens with a rising dawn, the chirping of birds and a vast landscape, introducing the sense of rustic harmony present throughout the film. a soft music plays, marking the entrance of ruth (jean bain). she wears a flowered dress and apron with a sun hat on her head. she gently pets tulip, caressing her ears and patting her back. the furnishing of the house is impressive and the attention to detail is creditable (a vase of tulips can be seen on the bench), reflecting the peaceful rural community. will (charles 'bud' tingwell) greets ruth as she is spooning the milk from the bucket. they pour the milk and coffee together, a sign of companionship and teamwork. not a word is said but it is obvious that their relationship is close and affectionate; they paint a perfect picture of happiness.<br /><br />sadly, happiness doesn't last forever. the tragic passing of ruth affects will deeply. an effective scene of fading cars highlights will's isolation and vulnerability at the end of the day of the funeral. soon he sinks into depression and becomes oblivious to his surroundings when everything seems hopeless and lost. at will's moment of despair, tulip becomes the symbol of ruth, the genuine connection will has with his late wife. it was through tulip that will learns to cope with the absence of ruth and overcome the heartrending feelings of loneliness.<br /><br />each of the characters is realistically and solidly portrayed, especially the part of will. charles 'bud' tingwell brings the character to life through personal investment. the recent loss of his own wife (audrey tingwell) is effectively reflected in his acting. every sag of his shoulder and every frown on his brow make the viewer empathize strongly with the character. the character of ruth is wonderfully carried out by jean bain. although ruth does not say a single word throughout the movie, her sweet personality and loving relationship with will are obvious. lois ramsey and kati edwards give delightful performances in supporting roles as the friendly margaret and mary. they also add a subtle humor to the bittersweet story.<br /><br />an anecdote from griffths' childhood, the story of loss and discovery is remarkably captured in 'tulip'. beautifully shot and superbly acted, this film will surely make you misty eyed, triumphant or feel like drinking a cup of milk.