most successful comic book movies usually depend on having villains that are bigger than life, ready to jump off the screen and strangle you alive with a smile or a demented line or two of dialog. the tim burton batmans had it, as did (in an even more grotesque manner) sin city. with dick tracy producer/director/star warren beatty piles on the villains until it becomes part of the framework. like a boisterous homage to 1930s gangster pictures- only this time meant for kids as opposed to the darker bonnie and clyde- dick tracy is filled, joyfully, with archetypes and bright, primary colors, where the criminals carry tommy guns and are formed on their faces to shape their personalities. villains like the stooge, shoulders, lips, the brow, mumbles, the blank, pruneface, spud. chester gould gave the names to his characters that fit their profiles, and gave his hero a jaw that could cut glass. the film is a continuation of sight gags that are perfectly taken seriously.<br /><br />if, at the time, movies like batman and (underrated) teenage mutant ninja turtles were darker depictions of reality within a comic-book outline, dick tracy is more 'old-school'. it's a story of cops and crooks, or rather a cop, detective tracy as he tries to bust big boy (al pacino, in what is arguably his biggest performance to date, and in a sense the one that makes sense for his grandiose style), but with no such luck. there's also a little kid, called simply the kid (charlie korsmo, who somehow brings more spunk to this little kid than would've been imagined), and tracy's love interest in tess. and then there's the nightclub 'dame' (madonna, who probably doesn't give any kind of great acting performance, but maybe that suits the role fine, and she sings excellently when called upon), who wont testify unless tracy admits feelings he doesn't have for her. then there's convoluted dealings with taking tracy down, and a mysterious masked figure with a scraggly voice.<br /><br />meantime, as if doing an impersonation of a howard hawks film in a splash of visual effects and bigger explosions, dick tracy adds on the wink-and-nod comedy and the action like its syrup on a tall stack of pancakes. it's a wonder to look at this world, which is created in ways that have a fascination to them that had they been done today would just be simply by proxy of computers (i.e. sin city, which can be justifiably compared to beatty's film). we're driven through this world in great big shots and then thrust in the plot line, or whatever there is of it, in big editing montages with camera angles that seem to come out of those little tilted panels in the comics of old. i'm almost reminded of the cotton club during these sequences, as story, music, detail, and a few big punches and gun-shots go a long way to revealing what needs to be said, which, actually, isn't more than it needs to. and there's a heap-load of catchy dialog from the script (one of my favorites: "the enemy of my enemy is... my enemy", plus any of pacino's references to other figures in quotes).<br /><br />revisiting this after seeing it for the first time in the movie theater (and only remembering little bits), dick tracy is a hard-boiled fantasy to the finest degree. it's filled with good cheer for the kids, and with some pretty good action squared away without some of the more sinister intent of its cousin comic-book movies (i.e. pg-13 fare), and for the adults its throw-back central done with panache and a solid feeling for the unsubtle. even dustin hoffman hams it up, and he barely says an audible word!