coming immediately on the heels of match point (2005), a fine if somewhat self-repetitive piece of "serious woody," scoop gives new hope to allen's small but die-hard band of followers (among whom i number myself) that the master has once again found his form. a string of disappointing efforts, culminating in the dreary melinda and melinda (2004) and the embarrassing anything else (2003) raised serious doubts that another first rate woody comedy, with or without his own participation as an actor, was in the cards. happily, the cards turn out to be a tarot deck that serves as scoop's clever maguffin and proffers an optimistic reading for the future of woody allen comedy.<br /><br />even more encouraging, woody's self-casting - sadly one of the weakest elements of his films in recent years - is here an inspired bit of self-parody as well as a humble recognition at last that he can no longer play romantic leads with women young enough to be his daughters or granddaughters. in scoop, allen astutely assigns himself the role of sid waterman, an aging magician with cheap tricks and tired stage-patter who, much like woody himself, has brought his act to london, where audiences - if not more receptive - are at least more polite. like chaplin's calvero in limelight (1952), sid waterman affords allen the opportunity to don the slightly distorted mask of an artist whose art has declined and whose audience is no longer large or appreciative. moreover, because they seem in character, allen's ticks and prolonged stammers are less distracting here than they have been in some time. <br /><br />waterman's character also functions neatly in the plot. his fake magic body-dissolving box becomes the ironically plausible location for visitations from joe strombel (ian mcshane), a notorious journalistic muckraker and recent cardiac arrest victim. introduced on a river styx ferryboat-to-hades, strombel repeatedly jumps ship because he just can't rest in eternity without communicating one last "scoop" about the identity of the notorious "tarot killer." unfortunately, his initial return from the dead leads him to waterman's magic show and the only conduit for his hot lead turns out to be a journalism undergraduate, sondra pransky (scarlett johansson), who has been called up from the audience as a comic butt for the magician's climactic trick. sondra enthusiastically seizes the journalistic opportunity and drags the reluctant waterman into the investigation to play the role of her millionaire father. as demonstrated in lost in translation, johansson has a talent for comedy, and the querulous by-play between her and allen is very amusing - and all the more so for never threatening to become a prelude to romance.<br /><br />scoop's serial killer plot, involving grisly murders of prostitutes and an aristocratic chief suspect, peter lyman (hugh jackman), is the no doubt predictable result of allen's lengthy sabbatical exposure to london's ubiquitous jack the ripper landmarks and lore. yet other facets of scoop (as of match point) also derive from woody's late life encounter with english culture. its class structure, manners, idiom, dress, architecture, and, yes, peculiar driving habits give woody fresh new material for wry observation of human behavior as well as sharp social satire. when, for instance, sondra is trying to ingratiate herself with peter lyman at a ritzy private club, waterman observes "from his point of view we're scum." a good deal of humor is also generated by the contretemps of stiffly reserved british social manners encountering waterman's insistent borscht-belt jewish plebeianism. and, then, of course, there is waterman's hilarious exit in a smart car he can't remember to drive on the left side of the road.<br /><br />as usual, allen's humor in scoop includes heavy doses of in-jokes, taking the form of sly allusions to film and literary sources as well as, increasingly, references to his own filmography. in addition to the pervasive jack the ripper references, for instance, the film's soundtrack is dominated by an arrangement of grieg's "the hall of the mountain king," compulsively whistled by hans beckert in m, the first masterpiece of the serial killer genre. the post-funeral gathering of journalists who discuss the exploits of newly departed joe strombel clearly mimics the opening of broadway danny rose (1984). references to deconstructing harry (1997) include the use of death as a character (along with his peculiar voice and costume), the use of mandelbaum as a character name, and the mention of adair university (harry's "alma mater" and where sondra is now a student). moreover, the systematic use of greek mythology in the underworld river cruise to hades recalls the use of greek gods and a chorus in mighty aphrodite (1995).<br /><br />as to quotable gags, allen's scripts rely less on one-liners than they did earlier in his career, but scoop does provides at least a couple of memorable ones. to a question about his religion, waterman answers: "i was born in the hebrew persuasion, but later i converted to narcissism." and sondra snaps off this put-down of waterman's wannabe crime-detecting: "if we put our heads together you'll hear a hollow noise." all in all, scoop is by far woody allen's most satisfying comedy in a decade.