this movie makes a statement about joseph smith, what he stood for, and what the lds church believes. with all the current media coverage of a certain fugitive people have confused the lds church with the flds church and criminal fugitive warren jeffs. jeffs is not associated with the lds church yet media groups internationally have asked for comments about jeffs from the lds church. jeffs is not mentioned in the movie at all but i think that it is ironic that this movie with all it's points about joseph also point away from the fews of the flds church and their leader at this time in the media world. this is a movie about joseph smith and a great one at that. some of the most obvious differences between jeffs and joseph is portrayed in joseph's humanity, acceptance and love. jeffs views and opinions differ greatly from joseph smith and the lds church and it is seen in this movie. jeffs thinks of the "negro" as devils. joseph smith knew they were children of god and gave up his wife's favorite horse to a african american (former slave) to buy his son's freedom. joseph is shown doing housework for his wife emma and is criticized by a member until joseph tells him that a man may lose his wife in the next life if she chooses not to stay with her husband and that doing chores is a way to help and cherish your wife. jeffs brought one of his polygamist wives to her knees in front of a class full of students by grabbing her braid and twisting it painfully till she came to her knees. lastly joseph participated with law enforcement and sought aid from the government at all times. jeffs thumbs his nose at government and flees at all times.<br /><br />i loved this movie and if you don't know much about joseph smith and what the lds church believes, then this is the movie to see. and if you had confused the lds church with the flds church then you really need to get your act together. we are not much different from anyone who believes in jesus christ, the sanctity of marriage and the family, as well a patriotic to our homeland and country. we are all different as well just like you can find different protestants, presbyterians, methodist, baptist and catholics. what's important is our message and what we stand for. this movie trys to portray that but there is so much of joseph's life that can't be covered in a mere 2 hour movie. this was a really great show.