i was lucky enough to watch this without any pre viewing hype. i was surprised at the resilience of the ghost's image in my mind the next day, and the day after that. i've watched it 3-4 times, and each time i appreciate it even more. the settings are gorgeous, the town at dusk has beautiful lighting effects, the marsh long shots, and the house itself is sufficiently grown with moss. the main hero is so likable and good natured, that he is easily sympathized with. to the person who complained that there wasn't enough 'spark' in this film, i'd say that it's because the whole fight against the ghost is being waged by just this one person. it is a fairly slow paced film, with an unusual amount of time being spent ,pre and post ghost attack, on developing his character with family and work life. spoilers discussion/<br /><br />i especially liked the turning point, when he comes back to the main town and meets with the man helping him and explains about seeing the ghost. he describes the woman in black, and then at the end of the conversation he says that he is going back, because after all, what harm had she done to him? the other man says, "you can't go back... alone!" and lends the hero his dog. the cute little dog offers a small respite of comic relief, with it's bounding through the house and even into the locked room.<br /><br />the many casual appearances of the ghost really freaked me out. the woman shows up in mid shot at the church, showing that it is not afraid of the church, and is also not shy or bound to the house. this is all in the very beginning. another unbelievably memorable scene was with the kids outside of the church fence, watching the funeral. as the camera pans to the right, the woman is seen in the background among the gravestones. the older man won't even look at it, but the kids are all yelling and taunting it. crreeepy... usually ghosts are hidden in shadows, haunting specific locales or people. as has been mentioned, the ghost's malevolence and wrath are frightening, and i feel it's attacks and the ending were perfect and fully justified. the ending underlined the fact that the hero made a major mistake by going back to the house. or perhaps he was marked no matter what, by saving the gypsy girl. the guy who plays the hotel manager is so believable, and really fills the role well. i have been spreading the word to my friends about how much i enjoyed this film, and it is reassuring to see others feel the same. i can see how people don't quite see the same masterpiece, especially if they went into it with a lot of review hype.<br /><br />i think another person summed it up when they said that this movie settled the question of whether or not ghosts could physically harm man. whew.. i plan to watch it again tonight followed by the changeling, aaww yeah. any other films to recommend?<br /><br />thanks,