my name is julia ross is a mesmerizing 1945 b thriller from joseph h. lewis, arguably one of the very finest directors of hollywood noir films. this 65 minute gothic oddity from columbia pictures came after lewis' lengthy apprenticeship as the helmer of a string of poverty row westerns, east side kids comedies, horror melodramas (including the incredibly bizarre bela lugosi shocker the invisible ghost) and standard studio b product (secrets of a co-ed, bombs over burma, the falcon in san francisco, etc)---all of which set the stage rather nicely for what was to come from the enormously talented and inventive mr. lewis. my name is julia ross (as well as so dark the night from the following year) introduced a director who had mastered the rare and delicate art telling a dark and probing tale swiftly and efficiently on the most modest of budgets. later lewis productions like gun crazy (1949) and the big combo (1955), despite the expanded scope of their narrative structure, continued to rely upon deft, lucid camera work and effective low-key lighting. and very modest resources.<br /><br />my name is julia ross probably owes more to the tradition of british mysteries (it's set in a studio-bound england) than it does to conventional film noir attitudes and trappings. a young woman (nina foch) agrees to take a position in the home of an elderly woman (dame mae witty). two days after her arrival she awakens from a deep sleep in a completely strange house and, mysteriously enough, with a brand new identity---that of the old woman's daughter-in-law. told that she's been the victim of a nervous breakdown, she struggles to grasp the utter and seemingly hopeless nature of her predicament. but before long she begins to piece together the strange and troubling truth behind this dark mystery, that her "husband" (the always menacing george macready) most probably murdered his real wife and that she's been duped into participating in a harrowing and sinister scheme. much of what distinguishes this otherwise modest tale are the indelible touches that lewis brings to the production, marking it as the first of his truly serious endeavors as a film director.