italy produced a lot of really great and original horror films in the 1960's - and this is certainly one of them! the first thing you will notice about danse macabre is the style of the film. shot in beautiful black and white, and due to director antonio margheriti's use of lighting; the film almost looks like it could be a german expressionistic horror film. this, coupled with the horror-filled plot line ensures that danse macabre is a film that truly captures the essence of horror. of course, the fact that the beautiful barbara steele appears in the film doesn't harm matters - and the good news continues as, in this film, she gets to flex her acting muscles more than she did in the films that made her famous. the plot is very aware of the time in which this was released, and so incorporates the great edgar allen poe. we follow alan foster, a writer who accepts a bet from poe himself and lord blackwood that he can't spend an entire night in the latter's creepy old castle. everyone that has spent the night there previously has died...and our hero is about to meet the previous wager-takers! <br /><br />nowadays, horror films don't tend to focus so much on each shot and the result is that there isn't much beauty left in the genre. it is refreshing, therefore, to see this film. many of the shots here are incredibly beautiful - from the female side of the couple wearing just a see-through skirt, to my personal favourite - a shot of smoke creeping in from under a door. this my first antonio margheriti film, and even after seeing just this one; it's obvious that he was one of italy's premier directors. also interesting is the fact that screenplay was co-written by another of the italian greats; django creator sergio corbucci. the plot can meander a little too much at times, but there's always enough atmosphere on hand to make sure that the film never becomes boring - and the fact that it is always intriguing, even when the plot slows down, ensures the same thing. the way that danse macabre utilises the 'haunted house' theme is both well done and original, and helps to keep the story as eerie as possible. on the whole, fans of italian and/or cult cinema will not want to miss this little gem!