bette davis' cockney accent in this film is absolutely appalling. i totally understand that americans and other nationalities mightn't realise this and that's fine; but believe me, it's about half as good as dick van dyke's cockney accent in mary poppins, and that was a right load of old pony (slipped into london vernacular there - many apologies).<br /><br />the remarkable thing to me is that the strange accents and exaggerated acting styles don't detract from the films' power. of human bondage is a fascinating piece of cinema despite its superficial faults. it also has to be viewed in perspective. the technical and cultural limitations of film making at the time have to be appreciated, and given those limitations john cromwell does a very good job directing the camera and allowing the narrative to develop cinematically rather than solely via the mannered acting and stilted dialogue. a fine example of his skillful direction is the scene set at victoria station. it is beautifully conceived, shot and edited. note too the stark shots of the prostrate mildred towards the end of the film; they owe more to the early days of artistic film making than the sanitised, formulaic world of the studio that was about to dominate.<br /><br />the themes of the film are universally familiar and compelling ones: sexual obsession, unrequited love, scorned passion, self-loathing, manipulative relationships, social divides and youthful folly. though the dialogue is often rather hackneyed, the difficult task of portraying these themes and the inner lives of the characters is tackled well albeit in a low-key way. some of the scenes of obsession and emotional rejection are uncomfortable to watch but the story doesn't descend into clich'e; we're aware that the characters (even the poisonous mildred) are both victims and perpetrators, and that their actions are motivated by their misunderstanding of each others feelings as well as by wilful selfishness. whilst naive in style the story reaches to the complex heart of the human condition and the mannered nature of the acting and the occasionally grating exchanges don't diminish the veracity of the work.<br /><br />of human bondage was one of the films that got bette davis noticed in hollywood and whilst watching it you are conscious of being witness at the birth of a celebrated career. her unconventional beauty and screen charisma (no one flounced or did disdain quite like ms davis) grab your attention from her first appearance. whilst hers is definitely the memorable performance in the film, leslie howard is also excellent as the sensitive and fragile student philip carey. they are a good combination, though, why oh why didn't he help her with that terrible, terrible accent!?