the 1930s. classy, elegant adele (marvelously played with dignified resolve by debbie reynolds) and batty, frumpy helen (the magnificent shelley winters going full-tilt wacko with her customary histrionic panache) are the mothers of two killers. they leave their seamy pasts in the midwest behind and move to hollywood to start their own dance school for aspiring kid starlets. adele begins dating dashing millionaire lincoln palmer (the always fine dennis weaver). on the other hand, religious fanatic helen soon sinks into despair and madness.<br /><br />director curtis ("night tide," "ruby") harrington, working from a crafty script by henry farrell (who wrote the book "whatever happened to baby jane?" was based on and co-wrote the screenplay for "hush ... hush, sweet charlotte"), adeptly concocts a complex and compelling psychological horror thriller about guilt, fear, repression and religious fervor running dangerously amok. the super cast have a ball with their colorful roles: michael macliammoir as a pompous elocution teacher, agnes moorehead as a stern fire-and-brimstone radio evangelist, yvette vickers as a snippy, overbearing mother of a bratty wannabe child star, logan ramsey as a snoopy detective, and timothy carey as a creepy bum. an elaborate talent recital set piece with pamelyn ferdin (the voice of lucy in the "peanuts" tv cartoon specials) serving as emcee and original "friday the 13th" victim robbi morgan doing a wickedly bawdy dead-on mae west impression qualifies as a definite highlight. david raskin's spooky score, a fantastic scene with reynolds performing an incredible tango at a posh restaurant, the flavorsome depression-era period atmosphere, lucien ballard's handsome cinematography, and especially the startling macabre ending are all likewise on the money excellent and effective. mgm presents this terrific gem on a nifty dvd doublebill with "whoever slew auntie roo?;" both pictures are presented in crisp widescreen transfers along with their theatrical trailers.