neatly sandwiched between the stranger, a small film noir picture that proved welles can do a formidable genre work on budget and on time and ironically proved his biggest box office success in the forties, and macbeth, a no-budget shakespeare adaptation shot in old western shets in 23 days, comes the lady from shangai, a dark film noir woven from the very same fabric of wellesian mythos that covers the magnificent ambersons, mr. arkadin and any other film the director didn't manage to save from the clutches of studio bosses.<br /><br />six years after the maltese falcon, with the post-war craze of the film noir in full swing, welles, always ahead of his time, a true visionary director of tremendous artistic integrity, envisioned a labyrinthine world of shadows that is already darker, more sinister, paranoid and serpentine than anything his contemporaries were doing at the time. it's no wonder the movie was so misunderstood at its time, to the point that one full hour of footage was forever left in the cutting room floor, and it was once again europe that championed it as another welles classic.<br /><br />certain set-pieces stand out. the aquarium scene with its flickering light and ominous shadows, and of course the funhouse/hall of mirrors finale that is as classic a piece of wellesian bravura as any in citizen kane or the trial. the only faults i find with the movie is welles' ill-advised irish accent and perhaps some of the erratic editing in the first act. the story however unfurls in a progressively mesmerizing manner, which the cuts only serve to intensify. i believe the heavily chopped versions of shangai and ambersons attain a surreal quality for that matter.<br /><br />welles would exile himself in europe for ten years and return in 1958 to deliver yet another stonewall classic, the monumental touch of evil, perhaps the crowning jewel of the film noir that was already in its waning days by that time. shangai was not the box office success a star vehicle for hollywood's premiere star of the time, rita hayworth, ought to have been, and welles marriage with hayworth ended before the movie was even released. sixty years later and one hour of footage less, shangai is still one of the best film noir pictures one is likely to discover. surely that must count for something.