in nyc, seaman michael o'hara (orson welles) rescues elsa bannister (rita hayworth) from a mugging & rape as she takes a horse & carriage through central park -and lives to regret it. titian-haired hayworth's a platinum blonde in this one; as dazzling as fresh-fallen snow -but nowhere near as pure...<br /><br />to reveal any more of the convoluted plot in this seminal "noir" would be criminal. it's as deceptive as the mirrors used to cataclysmic effect in the final scenes -but the film holds far darker secrets: from the ny times: "childhood shadows: the hidden story of the black dahlia murder" by mary pacios "mary pacios, who was 5 years old when she was befriended by 15 year old bette short, retraces short's steps, interviewing friends and associates. she also offered a detailed, if speculative, analysis of orson welles -particularly in regard to his movie "the lady from shanghai". according to ms. pacios, the movie, along with related archival materials, has many of the same ritualistic elements associated with short's murder. she raises the question: could welles have been the killer?" interesting theories -and with the spate of books now out on "the black dahlia", much more may come to light. fritz lang's brutal "film noir", "the big heat" (1953), was a roman-a-clef telling of the "dahlia" killing in "the city of nets" that was l.a. -but it's the orson opus that the "dahlia" had a "hands-on" connection to. in reality, it was bugsy siegel (and the hollywood mob wars of the 1940's) that did the "dahlia" in ...but that doesn't negate much of what pacios wrote. almost all of hollywood intersected with elizabeth ("the black dahlia") short and her tale/aura/legacy/curse is encoded in a number of golden age films.<br /><br />the "black dahlia" was always on the peripheral edges of "shanghai"-even before it started filming. barbara payton on franchot tone: "it was when he was thinking about making "the lady from shanghai", before he lost the option to orson welles. franchot said he'd been in a bad state over that deal when he ran into the dahlia in the formosa cafe* across from the goldwyn studios..." *the floor above the formosa cafe was bugsy siegel's office and "the dahlia" one of his on again/off again working "girls".<br /><br />it gets deeper and darker- after the 1951 brawl over barbara payton between tom neal and franchot tone that sent franchot to the hospital with a concussion and "never talking the same way again," barbara said, she married tone "just to spite neal." tom ("detour") neal also knew "the dahlia" (who didn't?) and became obsessed- from "l.a. despair" by john gilmore: "the january 1947 slaying of the young, beautiful would-be actress elizabeth short, known as "the black dahlia", was one of the most grisly murders in the annals of modern crime. a project, called "who killed the black dahlia?" was being kicked off by actor tom neal, a hell-raiser from ww ii movies. potential producer gene harris: "someone will have to come up with a more imaginative business proposition than what has been presented by tom neal and his cohorts..." not long after: "it would be very clear one beautiful day to come, when tom would sneak up on his pretty, new palm springs wife as she lay on their sofa and shoot a .45 bullet through her head." barbara payton and norma jean dougherty (later marilyn monroe) knew the "dahlia" and their stories are well known. it seems all who crossed the path of the "dahlia" (like the proverbial black cat) entered a "twilight zone" darkness and/or had an incredible string of bad luck afterward. tone/neal/welles are only a few -and this includes a butchered film called "the lady from shanghai"...<br /><br />"lady from shanghai" took two years to be released, thanks to extensive re-editing -and all because columbia president harry cohn couldn't understand the story. it's dark "noir" to be sure -one of the darkest, in fact. it's also a wicked satire on life in the new atomic age.<br /><br />nicolas christopher:<br /><br />"shanghai" pushes forth an insistent subtext of nuclear apocalypse and contains the definitive noir statement concerning the atomic bomb and the american city. the film's principal murder victim (and there are many), a psychotic and double-dealing lawyer, manically foresees armageddon at every turn, claiming he can "feel it." he announces that he plans to escape to a remote pacific island -a particularly acid joke on welles' part since this was the very year the u.s. began testing atomic bombs at just such a place, the bikini atoll, relocating all the inhabitants and destroying the ecosystem. by the time of bikini, the erotic identification of hayworth with the bomb appears to have been institutionalized, with the blessing of the military brass; the first bomb dropped in the pacific testing ground in named "gilda" and has hayworth's image, in provocative dress, painted directly on its casing..." <br /><br />its ironic that orson welles' broad interpretation of an irishman is considered a detriment to the film by many. welles is giving a clue to viewers that "michael o'hara" is only the storyteller - not part of the story even though it revolves around him. "o'hara" contradicts the shark motif throughout the film. sharks on a feeding frenzy won't stop until there's nothing left. "michael o'hara" lives to tell the tale. "elsa bannister" causes a feeding frenzy during "o'hara's" trial and her netted chapeau suggests she's caged in -so as not to devour the human spectators to a roman coleseum. the spectators are on a feeding frenzy of their own, gossiping and carrying on about "elsa" -a human aquarium correlating to the san francisco marine museum sequence. that's the human condition ...except for "michael o'hara". and yet he'll be spending his life trying to forget his past ("elsa") -or die trying. "elsa" is part of "michael" and the tale eats its own tail in the end and the viewer is cautioned to stay out of trouble.