i must admit i'm a little surprised and disappointed at some of the very negative comments this film seems to provoke. i think its a great horror/sci fi film. colonel steve west (alex rebar) returns to earth after an historical space flight to saturn. while in space he contracted some bizarre and unknown disease. he wakes up in a hospital bed, he looks in a mirror and before his very eyes his face is melting! escaping the hospitals supervision, he hides out in some local woods surrounding a small town. unfortunately he starts to develop a rapidly growing hunger that can only be satisfied by eating other people. he must feed on human flesh and drink the blood of others to survive! stalking human prey he begins his reign of terror! its up to his old friend dr ted nelson (burr debenning) to find him and try and help him. he has to work alone as his boss general perry (myron healey) wants it kept ultra quiet. nelson can't even tell his wife judy (ann sweeny). however, sheriff blake (micheal alldredge) becomes suspicious as general perry turns up just as some of the local townspeople start turning up half eaten. i don't really understand why this film gets such negative reviews, what do people expect? anyway, i really like this film. the star of the film are unquestionably rick bakers special make-up and gore effects which for the most part are excellent, and the fact their all prosthetic effects and no rubbish horrible cgi makes them even better. writer and director william sachs isn't afraid to use them either, we get some nice long lingering close up shots of the incredible melting man and they hold up very well, even now. photography, music and direction are a little bit dull, but professional enough. the script manages to create some sympathy for the the monster, shots of him looking longingly into ted nelsons house, or when he sees his own reflection in some water and reacts violently. the ending, set in a large factory of some sort, is pretty downbeat so don't expect any happy ending. which surprised me. also, the script doesn't really do anything with the premise, he just walks around melting and killing, with his friend trying to stop him, maybe a bit too simple. personally i think the worst bit of the film is near the start when the fat nurse runs down a hospital corridor in slow motion, her screams are also portrayed in slow motion too, it looks and sounds totally ridiculous! you need to see it to believe it! i like this film a lot and recommend it to 70's and 80's horror/sci fi fans. a bit of a favourite of mine.