master director ching siu tung's perhaps most popular achievement is this series, a chinese ghost story 1-3. chinese ghost story stars leslie cheung in some distant past in china as a tax collector who is forced to spend a night during his "collecting trip" in a mysterious castle in which some strange old warriors fight and meet him. beautiful actress joey wang/wong is the ghost who lives in that castle and is under a domination of one powerful demon, a wood devil who collects human souls for herself/itself with the help of her beautiful ghosts. leslie and joey fall in love, and even though ghosts are not allowed to live with humans, they decide to break that rule and live happily together for the rest of their lives. this is not what the wood devil thinks and our protagonists have to fight for their lives and their happiness.<br /><br />this film is no less full of magic than other films by ching siu tung. his masterpieces include duel to the death (1983) and the swordsman series, which all have incredible visuals and kinetic power in their action scenes. ghost story is full of brilliant lightning and dark atmosphere, which is lightened by the strong presence of the beautiful and good willing ghost. the effects are simply breath taking and would work at their greatest power in the big screen. the camera is moving and twisted all the time and it adds to the fairy tale atmosphere this film has. there's plenty of wire'fu stunts, too, and even though some think they are and look gratuitous or stupid when used in films, i cannot agree and think they give motion pictures the kind of magic, freedom and creativeness any other tool could not give. when people fly in these films, it means the films are not just about our world, and they usually depict things larger than life with the power of this larger than life art form.<br /><br />the story about the power of love is pretty touching and warm, but the problem is (again) that the characters are little too shallow and act unexplainably occasionally. leslie and joey should have been written with greater care and their characters should be even more warm, deep and genuine in order to give the story a greater power and thus make the film even more noteworthy and important achievement. also, the message about love and power of it is underlined little too much at one point and it should have been left just to the viewer's mind to be interpreted and found. another negative point about the dialogue is that it's too plenty and people talk in this film without a reason. that is very irritating and sadly shows the flaws many scriptwriters tend to do when they write their movies. people just talk and talk and it's all there just to make everything as easy to understand as possible and so the film is not too challenging or believable as it has this gratuitous element. just think about the films of the japanese film maker takeshi kitano; his films have very little dialogue and all there is is all the necessary as he tells his things by other tools of cinema and never talks, or makes other characters talk too much in his movies. this is just the talent the writers should have in order to write greater scripts.<br /><br />otherwise, chinese ghost story is very beautiful and visually breath taking piece of eastern cinema, and also the song that is played in the film is very beautiful and hopefully earned some award in the hong kong film awards back then. i give chinese ghost story 7/10 and without the flaws mentioned above, this would without a doubt be almost perfect masterpiece of the fantasy genre.