i just viewed this great good-natured parody of night of the living dead, and i have to say it was so awful and so corny it was excellent. this movie incorporated all the antics and scenery shots that the original had including the cemetery, the supposable abandoned house, the basement and the front lawn. what i especially love about this movie is the comical use of bread and all the common household enemies bread has a grudge against. c'mon, we know that toasters, toaster ovens and zip-locks have done bread in a dozen times and now we must call for their help in order to defeat the reanimated bread. aside from the cheap acting and voice-overs, this short horror film is my personal favorite parody of night of the living dead, even better than night of the living dead of 1990.<br /><br />i think what makes this movie worth watching is how the writers and directors utilized all the dialogue from the original movie and revolved it around bread, including how the bread became reanimated and to avoid leftovers because they are especially dangerous. another great reason why i love this movie is that, there is no exception as to what bread is evil, bagels are evil and even communions are evil, which is demonstrated by a hilarious scene involving a newscaster and a rather monotone priest. i think that the actors are especially humorous performing the deed of being viscously attacked by slices of bread (i.e. the car scene). i think the end is very worth sticking around.<br /><br />even though this is a short and that "night of the day of the dawn of the son of the bride of the return of the revenge of the terror of the attack of the evil, mutant, alien, flesh eating, hellbound, zombified living dead part 2: in shocking 2-d" is debatably another great parody, it's still recommend as a great horror parody done by, what seems to be college filmmakers. i highly recommend this movie to anybody who is able to make fun of night of the living dead and still have respect for the filmmakers. i would also like to recommend this movie to anybody who loves d-movies and horror parody's, it's just a wonderful little short horror film that's fun to watch and learn.