michael winner is probably best known for his revenge-themed films, such as "death wish" and "chato's land", but he is equally gifted as a director of occult horror cinema, as "the sentinel" of 1977 proves. "the sentinel", which is based on a novel by john konvitz, who also wrote the screenplay, is a clever and immensely creepy religious chiller that no lover of occult horror should consider missing. the film is obviously inspired by successful occult classics such as "rosemary's baby", "the exorcist" or "the omen", but, as far as i am concerned, it is also easily as unsettling as these more widely acclaimed films, and probably even creepier.<br /><br />allison parker (christina raines) is a beautiful young new york model. traumatized by events in her her past and not yet willing to marry her lawyer boyfriend (chris sarandon), allison is in search for an apartment, and finds a big, incredibly nice one, which is also affordable, in an old mansion in brooklyn. the new apartment, however, comes along with a bunch of very strange other tenants. and the sinister new neighbors soon become more than a little bothersome to alice... this may not be an adequate plot synopsis, but i would hate to spoil any of this film's great moments, so i will not give any further plot description. what i will say, however, is that "the sentinel" is a very creepy and effective film that profits from a great cast as well as an often bizarre and constantly uncanny atmosphere. the fact that director michael winner and writer john konnvitz also acted as producers here certainly had its influence on the outcome. the film is imaginatively photographed, and the eerie old brooklyn mansion is a fantastic setting for this kind of film. as mentioned above, the atmosphere is obscure and creepy, and the film also includes several shock-moments and genuine scares. the film features many sinister and eccentric characters, and the cast is superb. beautiful christina raines is great in her role of allison parker, lovable and yet on the cusp to losing her mind. chris sarandon is also very good as her boyfriend, a successful lawyer, and the supporting cast includes many big names, such as christopher walken, jeff goldblum, jerry orbach, beverly d'angelo and tom berenger, before becoming really famous. the cast also includes stars like ava gardner, horror icon john carradine, burgess meredith, and, my personal favorite, the great eli wallach as a cynical homicide detective. i've been a great fan of director michael winner for a long time, mostly for films like "death wish" and "chato's land". "the sentinel" is yet another great film in winner's repertoire, and also the proof that the man is not only a master of hard-boiled revenge-cinema, but also of atmospheric occult horror. all in all, "the sentinel" is a creepy, intelligent, and amazingly bizarre occult chiller that is highly recommended to all horror fans!