this horror movie, based on the novel of the same name, suffers from flawed production and choppy, amateurish direction, but it's nonetheless strangely compelling. unlike shocker horror flicks such as the exorcist, this movie takes the viewer on a slow yet relentless dip into a pool of evil. it drifts into horror, which dawns on the audience with the same dreamlike slowness as it dawns on the poor girl who's been unwittingly chosen to be the next sentinel. her appointed task is to sit at the gates of hell and prevent evil from erupting into the world. this falls on her in atonement for her attempted suicide earlier in her life.<br /><br />the story is true to the book, which was riveting, but the way it's edited can lose the viewer. there are subtleties in the plot that are shaved away and never explained satisfactorily, which hurts this film. that's a pity. the sentinel is not an edge-of-your-seat kind of flick; it's more a watch-and-squirm uncomfortably. like a bad car wreck, there's a compulsion to look even when it becomes unbearable. this movie isn't all bad, and still has a capacity to shock.<br /><br />the cast was competent. christina raines was captivating as alison, the vulnerable girl under spiritual attack from both sides, a pawn in the never-ending battle between good and evil. chris sarandon was good as her caring but ultimately self-centered boyfriend. eli wallach and a very young christopher walken are the detectives struggling to unravel the bizarre puzzle they've been handed. ava gardner is elegant as the realtor unaware of the horrors lurking in her rental property. the gaunt elderly john carradine, with his arthritis-twisted hands, is excellent as the dying sentinel who must be replaced. the devil is played to charming perfection by burgess meredith; he's so sweet and yet so evil. there are future stars hidden in this film: beverly d'angelo and jeff goldblum as friends of the poor girl, and jerry orbach playing successfully against type as a jerky television director. the damned souls at the end are portrayed by actual sideshow freaks and geeks. whoever thought to do that was a twisted but brilliant genius.<br /><br />the horror that pervades the movie bubbles up unexpectedly, such as when alison opens a door and finds something that evokes a flashback to when she found her father with his two whores. she relives her first suicide attempt, faces a pair of strangely dysfunctional lesbians, and sees a cat cut up as a cake. time and again, she's yanked back and forth through reality and fantasy, through dreams and waking nightmares, all the while lacking the means to cope. in truth, the devil is trying to drive her insane enough to kill herself before becoming the next sentinel. will he succeed...? in summary, slow-moving yet indescribably creepy, well-acted but poorly directed, and a very typical 70's horror film before the real shockers cut loose. (no pun intended) this movie may not work for those with a short attention span, but it can still send chills up the spine, and still can provide some low-key shock value. it remains a strangely compelling and entertaining dip into the realm of evil.