i'm not sure why this little film has been banished into obscurity, as despite some rather silly goings on; the sentinel is a clever and inventive horror film that gives most of the highly praised ghost stories of today more than a run for their money. michael winner has admitted many times that he's not the best director of all time, and that does shine through on a number of occasions with this film; but it has to be said that the film works in spite of it's uninspired direction, and the fact that winner has somehow managed to round up a simply amazing cast of talent more than makes up for it. the plot is rich with mystery, and begins by focusing on alison parker and her hunt for a flat. she finds that she can't afford most properties she looks at, but thinks her luck has changed when she finds a fully furnished apartment for an affordable price. her problems start soon after moving in, as she doesn't like her neighbours very much...and this problem increases when the property broker tells her that she has just one neighbour; an elderly blind priest on the top floor...<br /><br />the cast list is truly superb, with the relatively unknown cristina raines heading up a great support cast. chris sarandon is a little wooden in his role opposite raines, but small parts for the likes of john carradine, eli wallach, ava gardner, jeff goldblum and christopher walken, to name but a handful more than make up for sarandon's lifeless portrayal. michael winner does a good job with his central location, as the block of flats provides a creepy and macabre setting for the story. the film is a little slow to start, but it's never boring; and michael winner's screenplay provides a surprise that's almost impossible to guess from the offset, which certainly deserves some praise. like many similar slow-burning horrors, this one doesn't go for the money shot early on - but unlike many, the ending is a definite climax as winner goes all out to shock the viewer, and if the rumour that he used actual human oddities is true; i've got to say that he does a very good job at it! overall, while this film may be pure hokum whichever way you look at it; the sentinel is one of the better films of its type, and it's definitely a major highlight for its director.