if you are already a fan of peter o'donnell's wonderful modesty blaise books from the sixties, you will really enjoy this movie. if you have ever seen the 1966 "modesty blaise" film, forget it! that was camp. this is the real modesty blaise. the story and character are both true to the modesty that fans of the books know and love. it's a long way from joe losey's 1966 travesty, and it takes our modesty quite seriously. alexandra staden is quite good and believable in the part, and yes, we do get to see her kick butt. chuckle<br /><br />this is likely meant to be the first movie of a series and as such it serves to introduce modesty, her childhood and her days with lob.<br /><br />since peter o'donnell was the creative consultant on the movie, everything really rings true. even the story o'donnell told of how he conceived the character is just as he told it. having read all the books, i enjoyed the movie even more for that.<br /><br />now that miramax has kept their option on the property by having quentin tarrentino make this film, i do hope to see more of the modesty stories asap. especially as the wonderful character of willie garvin makes modesty's character really come alive. to that end, i really hope the film does well in europe. i have no idea if miramax intends to ever distribute the dvd in the usa. i suspect it might not do that well in the usa in general distribution. i wonder how miramax decides where and how to distribute it's films.<br /><br />in the story, modesty is in her early 20's, working at louche's casino in tangier. the flashback sequences are artfully done and take modesty from about 9 years old, through her teens up to her current age in the movie - about 21-22, i'd guess. i really don't think there's a "perfect actress" for modesty. for many of us modesty fans, she's much too powerful a presence in our imaginations already. alexandra staden is credible. she is very slim, graceful and poised. she has lots of closeups. she has a great face - one that sticks in your mind well after the movie is over. according to o' donnell's illustrator, romero, modesty has rather a fuller figure than staden, but i'm willing to overlook that. if staden continues in the role, i think she will mature into it - just as modesty grows more powerful and skilled as she gets older. staden already conveys modesty's humor and absolute assurance very well. go ahead and rent this movie, it's not like anything else you've seen and even though it was directed by scott spiegel, it is full of tarrentino touches, great camera moves, lighting and well-done action sequences.