i always feel strange and guilty saying it (because i'm a fairly well-educated non-teenager), but i actually sort of like the olsen twins, and i respect the movies they make, even though i've never really been their target audience. "when in rome" was a traditional mary-kate and ashley movie, complete with the foreign travel, accents, motorbikes, adult romance as a "b" storyline, fashion orientation, and even the gag reel over the credits. i enjoyed myself. "when in rome" and the other olsen twin movies never pretend to be anything they're not; most of the time, they only premiere on video, and they never claim to be the next "citizen kane" or even "an affair to remember." my point is, people who watch this movie and expect it to be anything other than another olsen twin movie will be disappointed.<br /><br />that said, those who are fans of the olsen twins will really enjoy themselves. for those of us who've watched them since the first episodes of "full house," it's really great to see them growing into more mature roles. this movie provides important historical and geographical information, just like many of their other movies (remember 10 downing street from "winning london" and the visit to the louvre from "passport to paris"?) as well as providing good, clean fun that can be enjoyed by the whole family.<br /><br />as long as i still feel like i'm on my soapbox, and as long as i can make it relevant to the movie, let me take a moment to challenge those who reject the olsen twins: in order to be a fan of the olsen twins, you don't have to be some pre-teen "valley girl" from california. in fact, that's not really the target audience. if it were, the mk&a fashion line of clothes and accessories would be run through gap or some store like that, not wal-mart. "when in rome," while it does feature "high fashion" and globe-trotting and two girls from a valley in cali, isn't really about that... it's more about inspiring young girls who have initiative to let it take them places. if that means setting the movie in some glamorous foreign city with cute guys on motorbikes, so be it. that's called marketing--you take an idea and sell it by making it appealing. at least they're sending a good message, even if the means seem a little superficial. <br /><br />basically, don't knock the film until you've seen it, and then don't knock it until you've tried to understand what the olsen twins do: they encourage young girls to be creative, intuitive, and driven young women. this movie does that, i think, just like their others. kids - enjoy. parents - do the same. if you like the olsen twins, you won't be disappointed.