cccc is the first good film in bollywood of 2001. when i first saw the trailer of the film i thought it would be a nice family movie. i was right. salman khan has given is strongest performance ever. my family weren't too keen on him but after seeing this film my family are very impressed with him. rani and preity are wonderful. the film is going to be a huge hit because of the three main stars. <br /><br />it's about raj (salman khan) and priya meeting and falling in love. they get married and go to switzerland for their honeymoon. when they come back raj and priya find out that priya is pregnant. raj's family are full of joy when they find out especially raj's dada (amrish puri). raj and his family are playing cricket one day and priya has an accident which causes priya to have a miscarriage. raj has a very close family friend who is a doctor, balraj chopra (prem chopra). he tells raj and priya that she can no longer have anymore kids. raj and priya keep this quiet from the family. raj and priya decide to go for surrogacy. surrogacy to them is that they will find a girl and raj and that girl will have a baby together and then hand the baby over to raj and priya. raj finds a girl. her name is madhubala (preity zinta). she is a dancer and a prostitute. raj tells her the situation and bribes her with money and she agrees. raj changes madhubala completley. raj tells priya that he has found a girl. madhubala and priya meet and become friends. they go to switzerland to do this so no one finds out. priya spends the night in a church and raj and madhubala are all alone and they spend the night together. the doctor confirms that madhubala is pregnant and they are all happy. raj tells his family that priya is pregnant. they are happy again. madhubala comes to love raj and she wants him. what happens next? watch cccc to find out. <br /><br />the one thing i didn't like about the film is their idea of surrogacy. they should have done it the proper way in the film but it didn't ruin the film. it was still excellent.<br /><br />the songs of the film are great. my favourites are "chori chori chupke chupke", dekhne walon ne", "deewana hai yeh mann" and "mehndi". the song "mehndi" is very colourful. in that song it shows the ghod bharai taking place and it is very colourful. the film deserves 10/10!