another episode from childhood that, as an adult, i look back on with a different perspective. this was one of my favorite childhood episodes, one that really cemented my adoration of this show. however, on viewing this episode after 20 years, i'd say it is definitely one of the lighter ones, played for laughs and amusement, instead of the dramatic and well-constructed story lines in previous episodes in this, their first and best season. perhaps this episode was written for a little fan r&r too! as mr. spock would say, the story just isn't logical but there are some amusing lines like, of course, mr. spock's final one at the end--when he asks the captain, mccoy et al whether they enjoyed their r&r and they answer in the affirmative, he raises an eyebrow and says "fascinating..." in only the way mr. spock could do that. an interesting story line, of course, the idea of an amusement park being actually amusing (instead of the fake and often annoying "amusement" of disneyland, for example), being able to have one's wishes actually come true. really, a great idea but not that well executed. and coming from theodore sturgeon, another of the great sf short story writers they used in the first season, one wonders how much tinkering was done to the script that sturgeon turned in.<br /><br />now, here is a little trivia i learned on this very site: in 1987, james gunn established the theodore sturgeon award for best short science fiction story. and i'll quote the rest from this site: in 1968 he {sturgeon} wrote "the joy machine", a third script for the star trek tv series {amok time the other}, that was never shot. the main reason that it wasn't used in the series is that it contained expensive special effects sequences that would be too much for their budget. however, the script was adapted into a book by sci-fi writer james gunn (star trek #80, the original series) and published by pocket books in 1996.<br /><br />i'd sum this up to say this episode is still very enjoyable, especially if one doesn't think too much about it. just laugh and enjoy it and next episode we can get back to the serious stuff of protecting the universe.