it seems a lot of imdb comments on this film are biased, in the sense that they try to compare it to an older version. true, "hollow man" is a remake of sorts of "the invisible man", but that's where the similarities end. "hollow man" is an entertaining movie,period. if you watch a movie with the intention of finding as many flaws as possible, then you shouldn't watch movies in the first place. true, some movies are plain horrendous and unbearable, but "hollow man" manages to entertain and make you think what you would do if you were invisible and if you had your ex getting laid with one of your friends. kevin bacon stars as a eccentric scientist who, along with a team of collaborators, discover the way to make animals invisible. now his mission is to make them visible again. when this team of young scientists (working, as you might guess, for the pentagon)think they have the formula for making animals visible again, kevin bacon volunteers to be the first to try the new experimental drug. after that, of course, things go wrong, as kevin bacon remains invisible for the rest of the movie and is obliged to wear a latex mask, so his collaborators know where he is. feelings of paranoia and desperation begin to take over kevin's character, and when he finds out that his ex girlfriend and collaborator (elisabeth shue) is having a torrid affair with another of the young scientists in the team, he finally snaps. the movie then turns into a hybrid of "alien" and a slasher flick, but that's not saying it's a bad turn. there are scares and chills and the movie moves at a nice pace. the special effects are top notch (a quality always prevalent in all of paul verhoeven's films)as we get to see some "body reconstitution" sequences never seen on a movie before. if there's anything to complain about, perhaps, is the predictability of the situations herein; by the first hour of the movie you know kevin bacon will make the jump from being weird and eccentric to being a homicidal lunatic in the end. and the ending is a bit abrupt, but despite this, hollow man is still worth watching. if you want to know what a truly bad movie is, then waste your money on "fear dot com" (with stephen dorf) or the even worse the untold (or "sasquatsh", with land henriksen). now that is "hollow"! 8* out of 10*!