the spoiler warning is for those people who want to see for themselves what animals and landscapes pass before their eyes, although i don't mention it in great detail.<br /><br />"earth" is an approx. 90 minute cinema version based on "planet earth" which i watched all on bbc tv.the tv version was narrated by david attenborough, a captivating commentator, who i had wished had also done it for "earth" but it is patrick stewart, star trek's captain picard. there are regularly shots of the earth from space so that's may be appropriate. in any case he has a nice enough and calm voice for it. there are 12 chapters in which we follow animal life on earth from north pole to antarctica. 3 animal families, polar bear, elephant and whale, appear in more than one of these parts. each "chapter" starts with an indication how far from north pole or equator it is. we see something of each kind of animal, but only mammals and birds, and some fish, and some beautiful shots of vegetation, mountains, waterfalls, deserts and jungle, a near perfect presentation of the variety of life and landscapes and climates on earth. you get the impression that our planet is only inhabited by animals: people or villages or cities aren't in the film, so it's a typical nature documentary, but breathtakingly shot and accompanied by delightful music. when the film opened i already knew it would end far too soon for me. it is a family film, so no brutal killings of any animals. when one is caught by his hunter the shot ends and in other cases where we see the prey being caught it's shot in slow-motion which makes it less violent and watchable for young children (age limit 6 in the netherlands). no blood is shed. some scenes (newly born animals) are really cute and will be adored by kids. it looks like an ordinary nature film but when you know how many shooting days it took (4000) and how much money it has cost it becomes an even more astonishing piece of beauty. it had it's dutch premiere yesterday, a month before the actual release, in a cinema of 500 seats, of which 15 were taken. true beauty is rarely interesting for cinema goers, it seems. as i knew the tv-series i was of course very curious if my favourite scenes would make it into this movie. some didn't, but the most impressive shots (big waterfalls) did, luckily. it was the first time i ever cried in a nature film.