her deadly rival (1995): starring harry hamlin, annie potts, lisa zane, tommy hinkley, susan diol, roma maffia, robert c. treveiler, d. l. anderson, william blair, sean bridges, robin dallenbach, wilbur fitzgerald, dale frye, stan kelly, deborah hobart, david lenthall, lorri lindberg, chuck kinlaw, amy parrish, melissa suzanne mcbride, ralph wilcox, al wiggins, jeff sumerel, daria sanford....director james hayman, screenplay dan vining.<br /><br />actor harry hamlin (of la law fame, clash of the titans and other films) seems perfectly cast in this "lifetime" type film directed by james hayman and released in 1995. he and his wife lisa rinna would later work on a film about sex addiction. "her deadly rival" is, at first glance, similar to the better known hollywood box-office hit "fatal attraction". in "rival", happily married couple jim and kris lanford move into a new home in the typically beautiful suburbs. they have the seemingly perfect marriage- they are deeply in love, despite a routine lifestyle. but then a mysterious admirer sets her eyes on jim. her identity is never revealed, despite an attempt by jim and even investigators to discover who she is. she constantly harasses jim through phone calls and letters. his marriage nearly flounders as his wife begins to think he's having an affair and trying to cover it up. while harry hamlin, annie potts and the rest of the cast - lisa zane, tommy hinkley, susan diol, roma maffia, robert c. treveiler, d. l. anderson, william blair- each seem to be straight out of a soap opera. but this is a very suspense-filled drama and has its good moments. there is a twist at the end. spoiler alert. all i have to say is "her deadly rival" was only herself. based on a supposedly actual case, jim's wife kris suffered from multiple personality disorder and that was what ruined her marriage. even if the story is not terribly impressive, even if the acting is only a step above soap opera acting, this film has its moments. especially moving are the intimate scenes between jim and his wife and the final scene in which, when jim learns the truth, he can't believe what he has just heard. the movie is probably a little too long and boring in some parts but it's the kind of tv movie that usually does well, especially on lifetime, which continues to produce films of this kind, of the "domestic thriller" type, or seduction stories. trashy but everyone likes trash.