the movie starts off in a classroom setting where not surprisingly, our main actress, orked was seen in a chinese language class. later in the film, she was asked on why (by mukhsin) that she was sent to learn mandarin. her answer was simple for a child she is; coz she's already known the malay language well.<br /><br />it's a bit of a romance one may thought of it, but once you've stopped yourself from reading too much critics and go for it, you'll notice the typical elements of malaysia. the movie basically focuses on 10 year old orked who met 12 year old mukhsin in a game of which many would think of it as a boy's game. running out of players, mukhsin (who was new in that village) was forced to allow orked into the game, in which she eagerly showed the male side of her. orked is no such ordinary girl as she depicts more of the male behavior as you will see in the movie, defending mukhsin from much violent encounter with her school-bullies, throwing one of the bully's bag out from the school bus window, throwing punches and kicks on mukhsin's brother where after he teased mukhsin and so on and so forth. both were awesome buddies, and stick closer than that, but with a slightest of misunderstanding in which most of us would all respond to in the same way, parted the both of them until the day when mukhsin left town.<br /><br />now the movie depicts the first love between orked and mukhsin, they started out as friends, but slowly evolving into somewhat more of a closer relationship and then towards bgr. you would notice, the changes yasmin made in the movies for each of the main actor and the actress when they go through love. the different character was portrayed with eagerness and mild humor. the scenes were all in random but it depicted so much reality in it that you'd be stuck on the screen for a long time. you will love the movie for what it is, and not because that you want to be patriotic to the local scenes, coz it means much more.<br /><br />as the movie envelopes around the two love birds, it also manages to find its lens towards orked's parents, her mother who was educated in england, speaks very good english and in which, her husband and the caretaker in the house with very much attempt tries to speak back their own kind of english, which was humor all the way indeed. let me just explain to you why humor can be such a prominent thing in this movie. and that explanation or description that you may portray can be given in only one word and that is randomness. often more than not, we don't learn to laugh at ourselves, and when we do, we do it at the expense of others. it is just like what the movie just follow law by jack neo would have mentioned - often when we are ourselves, we don't see the person in us we are, but when only when we are in another person's body, then only would we learn to see who we really are. and that is how humor applies as well, more so than just dignity.<br /><br />the movie was filled with such randomness that the typical facts of our routine lives as we carried it out could be all the way filled with laughter if we want it to be.<br /><br />the other focus of this movie was on how orked's neighbor, a couple in which the husband is no longer loving to his wife, and wanted to find another. pak koboi as what he's nicked after was seen polishing his motorbike daily and would take it out for a ride with his newly found girlfriend. the producer did not fail to show you perhaps why the husband wanted to find another wife. the wife was a real hurler or kpc as we chinese would call it, having interrupting on other people's business and sending her own daughter to tease orked in words only adults would use. after all, what goes around, comes around, and that's probably why bad things kinda want to happen to her. in every time, being nice to people around you won't hurt at all, unless you have an ego to protect, but then again, what's it worth? the movie also centers around mukhsin's brother, hussein who would go out to town everyday until very late at night, smoking, drinking, and also finding 'girls'. he's the total opposite of mukhsin, but that's all perhaps because of family problems. both the brothers were staying with their aunt and the parents were far away from them. i will not reveal more of the story line as it would spoil much of the interest in wanting to find it out for yourself, but the slightest of all elements in which the producer wanted to send a message across to the viewers is the life of us all. she wanted us, me at least to view life from our own perspective when we are not ourselves. movies in a way, take us out from our own body, places us in the character's position, and use our empty mind then to view on the happenings of it. depending on the type and genre of the movie, you will be mesmerized by how a good movie such as this would portray and imply a significant impact on you.