the british production company amicus is generally known as the specialist for horror anthologies, and this great omnibus called "the house that dripped blood" is doubtlessly the finest amicus production i've seen so far (admittedly, there are quite a few that i have yet to see, though). "the house that dripped blood" consists of four delightfully macabre tales, all set in the same eerie mansion. these four stories are brought to you in a wonderfully gothic atmosphere, and with one of the finest ensemble casts imaginable. peter cushing, christopher lee (cushing and lee are two of my favorite actors ever), as well as denholm elliott and the ravishing ingrid pitt star in this film - so which true horror fan could possibly afford to miss it? no one, of course, and the film has much more to offer than just a great cast. "the house that dripped blood" revolves around an eerie rural mansion, in which strange things are happening. in four parts, the film tells the tales of four different heirs.<br /><br />the first tale, "method for murder", tells the story of horror novelist charles hyller (denholm elliott), who moves into the house with his wife. after moving in, the writer suddenly feels haunted by a maniac of his own creation... the first segment is a great kickoff to the film. the story is creepy and macabre throughout and the performances are entirelly very good.<br /><br />in the second story, "waxworks", retired businessman phillip grayson (peter cushing) moves into the house, and suddenly feels drawn to a mysterious wax museum in the nearby town... the great peter cushing once again delivers a sublime performance in this, and the rest of the performances are also very good. the tale is delightfully weird, and the second-best of the film, after the third.<br /><br />the third tale, "sweets to the sweet" is by far the creepiest and most brilliant of the four. john reed (christopher lee) moves in with his little daughter. the private teacher and nanny mrs. norton, whom mr. reed has employed to instruct his daughter, is appalled about her employer's strictness towards his daughter, and is eager to find out what reason the overprotective father's views on upbringing may have... this best segment maintains a very creepy atmosphere and a genuinely scary plot. christopher lee is, as always, superb in his role. nyree dawn porter is also very good as the nanny, and my special praise goes to then 11-year-old chloe franks. this ingenious segment alone makes the film a must-see for every true horror-fan.<br /><br />in the fourth segment, horror-actor paul henderson (jon pertwee) moves into the house with his sexy mistress/co-star carla (ingrid pitt). this fourth story is satire, more than it is actually horror. it is a highly amusing satire, however, and there are many allusions to other horror films. at one point henderson indirectly refers to christopher lee, who stars in the previous, third segment...<br /><br />all four segments have a delightfully macabre sense of humor and a great atmosphere. as stated above, the third segment is by far the creepiest and greatest, but the other three are also atmospheric and often macabrely humorous horror tales that every horror lover should appreciate. an igenious atmosphere, a macabre sense of humor, genuine eerieness and a brilliant cast make this one a must-see. in short: "the house that dripped blood" is an excellent horror-omnibus that no lover of british horror could possibly afford to miss. highly recommended!