no-nonsense inspector hollaway (a solid turn by john bennett) investigates the disappearance of a famous thespian and uncovers the wicked past history of a creepy old house. first and most mundane tale, "method for murder" - successful author charles hillyer (nicely played by denholm elliott) is haunted by images of the murderous fiend he's writing about in his latest book. although this particular outing is too obvious and predictable to be anything special, it does nonetheless build to a real dilly of a genuine surprise ending. second and most poignant anecdote, "waxworks" - lonely philip grayson (the always outstanding peter cushing) and his equally lonesome friend neville rogers (the splendid joss ackland) both become infatuated with the beguiling wax statue of a beautiful, but lethal murderess. third and most chilling vignette, "sweets to the sweet" - quiet, reserved and secretive widower john reid (a typically terrific christopher lee in a rare semi-sympathetic role) hires nanny ann norton (the fine nyree dawn porter) to take care of his seemingly cute and harmless daughter jane (a remarkably spooky and unnerving performance by the adorable chloe franks). this stand-out scary episode is given a substantial disturbing boost by the exceptional acting from gifted child actress franks, who projects a truly unsettling sense of serene evil lurking just underneath a deceptively sweet and innocent angelic veneer. fourth and most amusing yarn, "the cloak" - pompous horror movie star paul henderson (delightfully essayed to the haughty hilt by jon pertwee) purchases a mysterious cloak that causes him to transform into a vampire whenever he wears it. this item makes for good silly fun and further benefits from the awesomely pulchritudinous presence of the luscious ingrid pitt as enticing vampiress carla. director peter duffell, working from a deliciously macabre and witty script by noted horror scribe robert bloch, maintains a snappy pace throughout and does an ace job of creating a suitably eerie atmosphere. kudos are also in order for ray parslow's crisp cinematography and the shuddery score by michael dress. highly recommended to fans of omnibus fright fare.