"gespenster" question of to be cool in the german cinema<br /><br />there are not many german films in the last ten years, who have made me so interest. yes, the problem of the most german films are in this film "gespenster" too. he is on some places to uncooked to be good to see. special the figure of toni (sabine timento) is too cool. but thats is in german films always so. everybody must to learns this coolness - is the realism in this films. thats difficult to understand. but in this case it makes some sense, because she steals and she lies - she is the kind of girl is better you never love it, because you lose it. thats not clear for the other girl nina in this film. she love her - and she would lose her. but nina lost everything. she will play with soft emotion and a sad feeling. there is no way - but you must take it said herbert achterbusch for twenty years. thats so often the way it goes in german films. why? nina (julia hummer) is not inside of the laws of society - the is outside - and there she have no chance. this films tries not on every place to gave her a part inside. thats one of the problems - the stupid break with conventions - the criminal fascination. throw it all away - and go nowhere! but the actress plays this difficult part very interesting. on the other side - there the parents - who are the pendant to the two girls. the have a car - a hotel suite - the have money and live in world with music of the opera. but the film stand always in some distance to seem. there is no much explaining of them.<br /><br />in the center of this film, there is one scene you will never forget. the two girls got to a casting. and there they should say how they find together. in this scene toni will lying on. she said a fantastic story-has nothing to do with her. and then nina will say the truth. she said it in an introversion way. there is no exhibition in it. she looks to the bottom and said what will happened for here. thats a great moment. in the next scene on the party with pictures in red this feeling is going on- than toni goes away...<br /><br />okay, the film will end - in the german way of coolness - rubbish - here the circle of sadness is closing. but there was a moment - where is happening something else - and this moment was important. he is more than german coolness - and this moments are rare in the german cinema in this time!