i don't think that many films (especially comedies) have added memorable, quotable dialog like moonstruck. i won't illustrate it - you can see a remarkably long list of quotes on this thread - but any film that can make subjects like the defense of using expensive copper piping rather than brass for plumbing purposes into memorable dialog is amazing to me. it is not the only line that pops up and makes an imprint on our memory. how about a restaurant waiter who regrets a planned marriage proposal because it will mean the loss of an old bachelor client? or a nice, elderly dog fancier encouraging his pack to howl at he moon? or perry (john mahoney's) description of a female student's youthful promise as "moonlight in a martini" (my favorite line).<br /><br />moonstruck is a wonderful example of brilliant script, first rate direction, and a good ensemble cast that fits perfectly. there are other examples (the drama the ox-bow incident is another example, but a grimmer one). cher, olympia dukakis, vincent gardenia, nicholas cage, john mahoney, and danny aiello are all involved in plots and cross purposes that examine the nature of love, and how to handle it. is it a good thing to be totally in love? cher and cage, at the end, seem to think so, but dukakis knows that real love drives the individual crazy (and cage gets a glimmer of realization of this too, when he and cher argue outside his home after they return from the opera la boheme). is infidelity by men a way of avoiding thoughts of death. dukakis believes so, and (oddly enough - although he is not totally convinced) aiello. chance reveals infidelity - dukakis realizes early that gardenia's odd behavior is tied to unfaithfulness, and cher literally stumbles onto gardenia and his girlfriend at the opera (but gardenia also stumbles onto cher's similar unfaithfulness to aiello). but chance also causes misunderstandings: fyodor chaliapin stumbles on dukakis walking with john mahoney and thinks that she is having an affair.<br /><br />there are lovely little moments in the film too. cher's observation about flowers leading to receiving one. her hearing the argument in the liquor shop and it's resolution. but best is the sequence of louis guss and julie bovasso as cher's uncle and aunt raymond and rita cappomaggi and rita's charming and kind comment to raymond about the effect of the moonlight on him. it is the sweetest moment of the entire film.<br /><br />it is close to a flawless film. after seeing it over a dozen times in as many years i can only find two points that do not seem as smooth as they should be. when cher is at cage's bakery, his assistant chrissy (nada despotovich) mentions how she is secretly in love with cage, but has been afraid to tell him. earlier she was slightly snippy towards cher, who put her in her place quickly. yet nothing seems done with this potential rivalry. at the same time, the fact that cher forgets to deposit her uncle and aunt's daily business profits is brought in momentarily in the concluding seven minutes of the film - but just as quickly dropped. was there supposed to be some plot lines that were dropped, besides one about cher and vincent gardenia working at a homeless man's shelter as penance? it is a small annoyance, but i think it is just based on a desire to see more of this film because it is so very good.