rock solid giallo from a master filmmaker of the genre, sergio martino. fashioned from a marvelous screenplay by ernesto gestaldi, this shocking mystery often develops fascinating twists until the terrific finale which most might not see coming throughout the film. it's when everything has fallen into place that we can go, "ahh.." the film revolves around the death of a husband(..in an airplane explosion)and the million dollars the wife receives from it. there are those with great interest in that money, one in particular being the dead man's mistress. the wife is lisa(ida galli)and the mistress demanding half the money is lara(janine reynaud). she tells lisa she knows that the death was arranged by her to get the insurance money. lara says she'll use her "lawyer", sharif(luis barboo)to get that money. so already, the film produces two possible suspects in the later murder of lisa, who awaiting someone in tokyo. george hilton portrays peter lynch. peter works for a company that investigates those who gain inheritance to see if the pay day was gathered under suspicious means. when, on his watch, lisa is killed by a man dressed from head to toe in black in her hotel room, he is a possible suspect. he decides to do a little investigating himself, while also assisting inspector stavros(luigi pistilli)and interpol agent, benton(tom felleghy)on their quest to find a killer. the killer strikes several times eliminating anyone revolving around the missing million dollars confiscated by the one responsible for the murder of lisa. soon, the film follows a journalist, cl'eo dupont(the delicious, luscious anita strindberg)as she and peter meet for a dinner where she could try and sniff out anything that might break a story for her. soon they fall deeply in love, but it seems like anyone who is near peter is killed. soon someone attacks cl'eo with an intent to kill which pushes the investigation further into uncharted territory. why would anyone wish to harm a journalist with no real facts to damage the one killing off people.<br /><br />this giallo is quite clever and exciting to follow. the film never lulls which is quite remarkable since so much happens leaving open the question of the identity of the killer. this film follows the path of gialli with knife slashings because of a certain pattern the killer has taken(the throat and lower torso). the film's conclusion wraps up all the complex loose ends and is quite satisfying. the film has some unique camera angles, but delivers the goods in terms of driving the plot and the execution of the mystery.