abhay deol's second film, written by imtiaz ali, maiden directorial effort by shivam nair. soha probably has her first (?) meaty role as megha, a girl who has run away from home and is waiting at the delhi marriage registrar's office for her boyfriend dheeraj (shayan munshi) to meet her. she waits and waits and finally is spotted as a damsel in distress by ankush (abhay deol). they spend many days together as he extricates her from one distressing situation after another and finally falls in love with her. then the boyfriend returns! aage pardey par dekhiye! sound familiar? this is yet another adaptation of dostoyevsky's white nights with a tiny bit of borrowing from le notti bianchi (very tiny though - ankush keeps the lovers apart by telling the boyfriend she is dead!). but this is an earthier and more realistic (duh) adaptation than the much hyped and overblown saawariya. i wonder why no one brought this little gem up when we were all discussing saawariya like crazy a few months ago.<br /><br />the delhi settings are wonderful - there is the obligatory run through old delhi, shots of jama masjid from a roof top, connaught circus, streets with rickshaws (what? how?). the colorful light fixtures in the hotel are enough to tell you this is a seedy joint with rooms for hire by the hour! <br /><br />the more i see of abhay the more i like this young man. in this second film he is quite good as the for hire witness who is given a purpose in life by a beautiful woman. soha looks beautiful, and when she smiles she fits the role, but i found her unconvincing in the more serious moments. i am not quite sure that she has it in her to be a great actress, or maybe she will blossom late like the brother. the music by himesh reshammiya is not that great and in fact the movie falters at the songs, they kind of interrupt the narrative and do not sit well with the characters trying to sing them. the supporting cast is excellent and i give this white nights adaptation a thumbs up. btw - the fact that i love abhay deol's cute dimples has nothing to do with my rating.