criticism of the film evening, based on the novel by susan minot and adapted for the screen by minot and michael cunningham, has been harsh, so harsh that it may have discouraged many viewers from giving the film a try. the primary criticism has centered on the fact that very little happens in this film about a dying woman's fretting over a mistake she made one summer in her youth, that famous actors were given very minor roles, that the entire production was over-hyped, etc. for this viewer, seeing the film on a dvd in the quiet of the home, a very different reaction occurred.<br /><br />ann grant lord (vanessa redgrave) is dying in her home by the ocean and her medication and memories allow her to share a man's name - 'harris' - with her two grown daughters nina (toni colette) and constance (natasha richardson). as her daughters sit at her bedside ann relives a particular summer when she was a bridesmaid for her best friend lila (mamie gummer) - a marriage both ann (claire danes as the youthful ann) and lila's alcoholic brother buddy (hugh dancy) objected to, feeling that lila was simply marrying a man of her class instead of the boy she had loved - harris arden (patrick wilson), her housekeeper's son who had become a physician. harris, buddy, lila, and ann are woven together in a series of infatuations and romances that have been kept secret until now, 50 years later, as ann is dying. the older lila (meryl streep) visits ann at the end and the secrets are revealed: 'there are no such things as mistakes - life just goes on.' the film is a delicate mood piece and the script by minot and cunningham is rich in atmosphere and subtle life lessons. yes, there are gaps in the story that could have used more explanation, but in order to maintain the aura of nostalgia of a dying lady's words, such 'holes' are understandable. the film is graced by the presence of not only redgrave, richardson (redgrave's true daughter), collette, gummer (streep's true daughter), meryl streep, claire danes, eileen atkins, glenn close, hugh dancy and patrick wilson, but also with an ensemble cast of brief but very solid performances. the setting is gorgeous (cinematography by gyula pados) and the musical score is by the inimitable jan a.p. kaczmarek. lajos koltai ("being julia') directs. judge this film on your own.... grady harp