so many wonderful actresses in one film serve as a practical invitation to the local movie house so i duly responded. here are some remarks..<br /><br />vanessa redgrave is great even while lying in bed. she also looks very old and i don't think this is achieved with much make-up which is a good thing for the film but a sad thing for us cinema-goers. i think her aging got a bit harsh in recent years. claire danes continues her welcome return to the movies and exudes a definite warmth. mamie gummer's resemblance to her mother merly streep both in terms of physical appearance and acting style is so striking that i lost my concentration to the film for a couple of minutes after her entrance. she is surprisingly good; however such a resemblance has the danger of working against her favor. i agree with a previous comment: natasha richardson definitely had some plastic job done to her face. she certainly does not look like how i remember her from previous films ("nell" for example.) both she and toni collette sadly do not make much impression partly because they do not look convincing as sisters. their interplay is weak. toni collette additionally is way too old for her character. glenn close and meryl streep had to have more screen time. streep's performance actually is little more than a cameo. her scenes on the other hand have bigger emotional resonance than the rest of the film. eileen atkins provides some welcome dry wit, especially in her second role as an imaginary nighttime companion to redgrave's character. as for the men; hugh dancy enlivenes the film considerably even though he gives a broader performance than needed. as a matter of fact as soon as he exits the story it starts to drag. it is also to his credit that he manages to create the exact necessary sense of boyish charm in the viewer. patrick wilson on the other hand is a complete void at the center of the film. he also has the misfortune that the script is insufficient in explaining why three people (one of them a man) are so much smitten by this man. the backstory to this should have been developed more.<br /><br />the cinematography is excellent as expected. however the main summer house set failed to convince me. it does not look natural on the top of that rocky hill, particularly with its grass patch in the front. a bit too cardboard like.<br /><br />overall, the film is a classy production, but a seen-it-all-before, cried-at-it-all-before feeling took over me during most of its duration and consequently it failed to make the kind of impact on me that i expected from a tearjerker. however, it still managed to make me thoughtful about the passing of time, about one's expectations from life and the extent to which these are fulfilled or not. worth trying at least on dvd if not at the movies...