while in her deathbed, ann lord (vanessa redgrave) repeats the name "harris" and recalls the day on the 50's when she was an aspirant singer and traveled from new york to be the maid of honor of her wealthy friend lila wittenborn (mamie gummer) in newport. ann grant (claire danes) is welcomed by lila's alcoholic and reckless brother buddy (hugh dancy) in the wittenborn's cottage at seaside and he tells her that his sister is in love actually for their friend and servant harris arden (patrick wilson), who fought in the war and has graduated in medicine. later the bride-to-be confesses her true feelings about harris to ann. however, when ann meets harris, she has a crush on him and they have a brief affair during one night stand while a tragedy happens with buddy. meanwhile ann's daughters, the insecure and unstable nina mars (toni collette) and the happy wife and mother constance haverford (natasha richardson), are worried with their mother and have differences to be resolved.<br /><br />"evening" has one of the best feminine casts i have ever seen in a movie, with magnificent performances. the resemblance of the stunning mamie gummer with her mother meryl streep is amazing and she has a performance that honors the name of her mother. the locations, costumes, set decoration, cinematography and soundtrack are also awesome. unfortunately the plot is confused and i have not clearly understood the message of this film. why motherhood is so important in the story? was constance engendered in the night stand of ann and harris and he would be her father? why ann and harris have not stayed together, if the guy really loved her like he confesses in their occasional encounter in new york? which issues ann lord has resolved after the visit of lila ross? was buddy wittenborn bisexual or his love for harris was a fraternal love? why nina mars changed her thoughts about motherhood in the end? it seems that the screenplay writers or the director failed since they were not able to make sense and fulfillment to the beautiful love story. my vote is seven.<br /><br />title (brazil): "ao entardecer" ("in the eventide")