knowing what to expect (on the whole) from a denzel washington performance - quality, integrity, gravitas, wry humour - will prepare you for what to expect from his directorial debut. much like robert de niro's a bronx tale, antwone fisher delivers the moving drama of the life of a young man and the effects of key figures in his life. much as in a bronx tale de niro played one of these key figures to the lead character (himself a character was born to play but was too old too) washington takes a similar role in this as the fatherly councellor to the titular character - a character that seems like he should be played by a washington from 20 years ago. be thankful washington is too old to play antwone because if he had we would firstly be deprived of the wonderfully measured and intelligently nuanced performance he gives as the navy councellor. however more importantly we wouldn't get to see the superb, we can only hope star making, turn from derek luke in the title role. inevitably the character comes across as moulded in washington's shape, however you get the impression this is not just because washington directed it, not that luke was trying to copy him, but that luke is as genuinely powerful and thought provoking an actor as washington. it took far too long for washington to receive the academy award he deserved for malcolm x, philadelphia, devil in a blue dress and the hurricane, let us hope that luke does not have to wait so long. also a great piece of casting was joy bryant as fisher's girlfriend, cheryl. while the part could have been a forgettable support or a standard 'girlfriend' role bryant imbues it with life. tender and intelligent the role transcends stereotyping with bryant inhabiting it, and she makes the part significant and interesting. it doesn't hurt either that bryant is possibly the most attractive woman you'll see on celluloid this year - the smile alone could thaw the coldest heart. acting ability and looks - why isn't this woman in everything being made right now. providing good support in a small role in salli richardson as washington's wife berta. saying more with a silence or look than many hollywood actresses can manage in an entire film she informs the audience of the entire storylines long before any exposition occurs. as for washington's directing, as i said, it is the directing equivalent of his acting. taking the story of a man few viewers will have heard of and making it genuinely interesting is a difficult feat which washington achieves with aplomb. the film is neither rushed nor showy, but it never feels slow or dull. it is measured and nuanced, balancing the humour and drama perfectly. antwone fisher may not blow you away if you like big, explosive, plotless hollywood films but for those who appreciate a finely crafted character piece, with excellent performances and steady well handled direction, this is for you.