this film, which is based on a true story, comes from first time director and long time actor, denzel washington. denzel washington has given us some of the best performances of the last decade, as a black soldier in the civil war in glory, and a lawyer in the acclaimed philadelphia. and of course, he made special notoriety last year when he won the academy award for best actor in training day, in which denzel washington became the first african american to receive the award for best actor. i guess denzel wanted a change of pace, so he chose to direct antwone fisher, in which he also stars. fisher is played by derek luke, who is new to the silver screen, but has made some guest appearances on such television shows as king of queens, and he will be appearing in the upcoming film release of biker boyz.<br /><br />	this is a truly well done film from denzel washington, considering it was his first time directing. undoubtedly, denzel felt some kind of commitment and believed in the real life story of antwone fisher. antwone fisher is about a young african american man in the navy who constantly gets into fights, and after one particular brawl he is sent to see a navy psychiatrist named jerome davenport, played by denzel washington. davenport helps antwone to deal with his troubled past and learn to move on with his life, by finding his birth mother who had to give him up at birth because she was in prison. what makes this film good is the fact that it's not overly melodramatic. i was expecting something a little more like good will hunting, with a lot of swearing, fighting and vulgarity. not that i didn't like good will hunting, or the swearing, fighting and vulgarity of the film were out of place. quite the contrary! however, antwone fisher is a true story, and i don't think that washington wanted to sensationalize the story for dramatic affect in the film. don't get me wrong, there are moments when we see antwone fighting, carrying on and having moments when it seems like the world is closing in on him. after all, in his first session with his psychiatrist, the character played by washington, devenport asks fisher where he was born, and fisher's response is, `from under a rock,' an obvious jab at the pressures waning on antwone fisher's soul. but i had to appreciate the fact that this film wasn't sensationalized for dramatic affect. i think it shows real character on the part of denzel washington to deliver a more realistic story and to avoid the typical clich'es that are common in hollywood films, even those based on true stories. one other point that i would like to bring up about antwone fisher is the acting. over all, performances were good in the film, but not great. at times, i think it was a bit obvious that the main characters were actors, but overall, to complain about performances in this film would be ludicrous. one actress that i would like to point out in this film is viola davis. she plays antwone's mother, but she says barely two sentences in the movie at all, but not so much because she appears at the end of the film, but more because she in shock that her long lost son, antwone has found her. what i would like to point out about her as an actress in the lack of use of her. she in basically a character actress, and i haven't seen her play any really elaborate roles. she made appearances in traffic, out of sight, kate & leopold, and two recent films: far from heaven and solaris. in steven soderberg's remake of solaris, she played a scientist on a doomed space craft orbiting a planet. in that film, she is confronted by george clooney's character and she drawn to tears by what clooney tells her in a particular scene. when i first saw solaris, i remember seeing her tear up in the scene and thinking, wow, this woman can act. it was as if you could feel the character's grief. in that brief shot of her face, she gave so much expression and i honestly felt very sorry for her character's sadness and trouble in the film. i think she has definite potential as an actress and should be used more often perhaps in leading roles, rather than just as a character driven actress. nonetheless, antwone fisher is a very good movie. denzel washington, as always, pulls off a great performance and he gives us a great directorial debut. also, derek luke is a very talented actor. i think that antwone fisher will bring his immense critical fame for his portrayal of the troubled man, but i think that his public popularity will increase with the release of biker boyz, which also stars lawrence fishburn. antwone fisher is based on the book `finding fish: a memoir,' by antwone quenton fisher. ***