i had seen marion davies in a couple of movies and really couldn't understand her appeal. she couldn't dance for peanuts, she didn't attempt to sing and as for her acting - she seemed in a trance. but i hadn't seen her silent comedies and this film is wonderful. rather than kidding her own image, as has been suggested here, to me it seems a satire on gloria swanson, who did start off in slapstick comedies, went on to highly emotional women's pictures and did end up marrying a count. marion, a top mimic, also did a funny rabbit imitation whenever she wanted to be seen as grand, that was gloria swanson spot on!!!<br /><br />colonel pepper (dell henderson) has motored all the way from georgia to hollywood, determined to prove that his daughter, peggy, (marion davies) will be the greatest star ever. their hope dwindles and they are down to their last 40 cents when they meet billy boone (william haines) who works at the slapstick studios and promises to get peggy a job. peggy thinks she is going to be a great dramatic actress but the studio think she is a fantastic comic. they convince her to make the film and at the preview she is a great success. charlie chaplin asks for her autograph but she doesn't recognise him and treats him pretty rudely. "who was that short little guy" - when she finds out she faints!!! peggy and billy get a call from high art studio but only peggy is wanted and suddenly she is on her way. there is a funny scene where she sees a star she doesn't think much of - it's marion davies!!!<br /><br />she finally gets a chance of being a dramatic actress - but she can't cry!!! it is a hilarious scene as the director tries everything to get her to cry and when he succeeds, she can't stop!!! her new leading man, andre (paul ralli) convinces her to forget her comedy past and become elite and sophisticated - she even adopts a new name - patricia pepoire!!! she also seems to have forgotten billy and her dad - she has developed a "star" personality!!! when the slapstick studio picks the same location as "patricia's" movie, billy is thrilled to see her but quite unprepared for her snobby attitude. when she calls him a cheap clown he realises that she is not the girl he once knew. <br /><br />after a studio luncheon ( a magnificent panning shot of some of the greatest stars of the day) "patricia" gets a call from the boss. it seems her films are a flop and no theatres want to book them - the public are tired of her mannerisms and want the old peggy back. she and andre decide to get married, she dreams of being a countess (even though billy says that andre used to serve him spaghetti in a little cafe downtown and is no more a count than he is). on her wedding day, billy visits and after a hilarious custard pie fight she realises that billy is the one for her.<br /><br />it was amazing to see all the guest stars - john gilbert is seen going through the mgm gates, lew cody is talking to elinor glynn, who not only wrote "it" but several racy romances that were made into mgm movies. william haines, another actor whose movies i had always wanted to see, was great - especially in the cafeteria scene , he had wonderful comic timing. harry gribbon was hilarious as the comedy director - there were so many hilarious scenes in this film and marion was at the top of them all - i'm giving this film 10 out of 10.<br /><br />highly, highly recommended.