i had the opportunity to see this film twice at the 2006 moving picture festival in birmingham, alabama. i enjoyed it so much that i watched it a second time when they had an encore screening.<br /><br />when i think of the films that are shown at festivals, i usually expect them to be edgy and offbeat, often with the feel of an elaborate student project. there's nothing wrong with these types of projects of course, and i enjoy the unique styles of independent films, but sometimes i want to see a more mainstream approach to independent film-making. by "mainstream," i mean more like a film produced for national release - in other words, a movie that you would see in a regular movie theater.<br /><br />the writing, directing, cinematography, casting and acting in this movie are all totally pro. there is nothing typically independent about this film. as an aspiring director, i am always looking for movies that will motivate me to stop procrastinating and push harder to get my career going. this is one of those films. as i watched the big bad swim, my motivation level was incredible. i felt like my adrenaline had kicked in. the reason i felt this way was because i was so impressed with every aspect of this production. i left the theater excited and ready to start writing that long put-off project. when a movie makes me feel like that, i know it's really good. this is the first feature-length project from ishai setton and i found myself wishing that it had been my project. for me, that's really rare.<br /><br />see this film. it's beautifully shot and directed, and the casting is excellent. paget brewster delivers a very believable and likable performance. she has a quality about her, a charisma, that really draws you in and keeps you focused on her any time she is on screen. she makes you feel like you know her personally as a friend. that's a gift. i think the industry is really missing out by not utilizing her acting abilities more often. jeff branson and jess weixler also did top-notch jobs. i can not say enough nice things about the big bad swim. i look forward to future projects from all of those involved in its production.