finally, after years of awaiting a new film to continue the sexual mayhem of "basic instinct", we have been given a great sequel that is packed with the right elements needed for a franchise such as this! i remember everything about the original, the steam, the romance, the sex, the interrogation, the music (by the master jerry goldsmith), and everything else from violence and murder, to intense confrontations of all kind! make no mistake, "basic instinct" was a real winner for audiences everywhere. i can remember in 2001 when we were first given the news about such a sequel. five years later, we have it. i never would have thought it to end up such as this. when it was declared a dropped project, time sure couldn't tell if it was ever a real possibility to begin with. well, i guess we now know anything's possible in this case. even if the original director, or writer are not present, all we need is the glamorous, always reliable sharon stone, and we have a done deal! please, hear me out...<br /><br />when people say that this film is bad, i think it is only due to the fact that the style is extreme, and slightly dated. i use the word "dated" only because we have not seen a certain film of the like in many years, and audiences have become adapted to the pointless, boring storytelling seen in other movies that actually make money, and the only reason they make such big numbers is because those films are family friendly. who needs hole some and clean? of course it's a pleasant thing to have, but c'mon! escapism is really seldom these days, and "basic instinct 2" gives us real fans what we've been expecting. this film is not an academy award winner, nor does it try to be. it simply delivers the die-hard fans what they have been expecting. it's a film for fun. movies today seem to take themselves way too seriously, but this film is just loose and fun, not taking itself seriously, not too seriously anyway. that said, i shall evaluate the film.<br /><br />the film is a fast-paced film from the first second, as we see cathernine tremell in a car, speeding at 110 mph-and enjoying lustful thrills doing so. perhaps sex and driving does not mix, because our sexy novelist takes a bad turn and...well, she gets away unharmed, but her studly partner doesn't fare too well. once again, tremell is the primary suspect of the accident, and will be put under analyst's and psychiatrists. dr. michael glass (morrissey) is automatically drawn to to her from the first moment he meets her. like another criminal investigator before him, he is entranced and seduced, slowly, and surely. his denial of it all begins to crumble around him as she weaves a spell only she has the power to do. tramell is possibly more dangerous now, than she was before,but like the first one, we'll never really know, will we? once the seduction is in motion, jealousy, rage, drugs, and a plateful of erotic scenery ensues!<br /><br />this film does not recycle the first one, but rather mentions the previous films incidents briefly from time to time. this is a good thing. it lets us as an audience know that the script has been written to bring the level up a notch or two. sharon stone dazzles us again, as though 14 years has not come to pass. her second run of the deceitful novelist is right on the spot as earlier. just awesome! david morrissey is well cast, and manages pretty well. the fact that a non-popular star was chosen, makes his performance all the more enjoyable because we as an audience have no background on him, just what we see him perform. my final thought-8.5 to 9 out of 10. so it's not the first one, nor can it live up to the first ones prize winning place. it can, however, live up to the standards set by the first film, and it does folks! it does.