"wisecracker," the biography of actor william haines, offers a gratifying anecdote about the former star when he was past 70 and long retired from making movies. the old gent was not sentimental and rarely watched his own films, but in 1972 he was persuaded to attend a los angeles museum screening of show people, the late silent feature in which he co-starred with marion davies. beforehand, haines was worried that this comedy would provoke the wrong kind of laughter, but he was pleasantly surprised (and no doubt relieved) at how well it held up and how much the young audience enjoyed it. watch the film today and you can see why: show people is a delightful hollywood satire that retains its charm because it lampoons its targets with wit and flair, yet without malice. it's still funny and its satirical points still resonate. needless to say, the technology of movie-making has changed vastly since the silent days, but the pretensions and follies of the filmmakers themselves haven't changed all that much.<br /><br />show people also stands as the best surviving work of marion davies, a first-rate comic performer who deserves a prominent place in the pantheon of great comediennes. where her career was concerned davies was both blessed and cursed by the patronage of her paramour, the newspaper magnate william randolph hearst. it's well known that hearst exerted enormous influence over davies' choice of roles, and well known too that, despite her gift for comedy, he preferred to see her play dignified heroines in period costume dramas. by the late '20s, for whatever reason, marion was permitted to strut her stuff in several exuberant light comedies (including the red mill and the patsy), but show people, directed by the great king vidor, stands as her most enjoyable showcase. william haines gives an engaging, likable performance as her boyfriend and co-star billy boone, but this is the leading lady's show all the way.<br /><br />marion plays southern belle peggy pepper, an aspiring actress who storms hollywood accompanied by her father, determined to become a movie star. (her dad colonel pepper is played by actor/director dell henderson, a veteran of griffith's biograph dramas who