the great cinematic musicals were made between 1950 and 1970. this twenty year spell can be rightly labelled the "golden era" of the genre. there were musicals prior to that, and there have been musicals since... but the true classics seem invariably to have been made during that period. singin' in the rain, an american in paris, the band wagon, seven brides for seven brothers, oklahoma, south pacific, the king and i, and many more, stand tall as much cherished products of the age. perhaps the last great musical of the "golden era" is carol reed's 1968 "oliver". freely adapted from dickens' novel, this vibrant musical is a film version of a successful stage production. it is a magnificent film, winner of six oscars, including the best picture award.<br /><br />orphan oliver twist (mark lester) lives a miserable existence in a workhouse, his mother having died moments after giving birth to him. following an incident one meal-time, he is booted out of the workhouse and ends up employed at a funeral parlour. but oliver doesn't settle particularly well into his new job, and escapes after a few troubled days. he makes the long journey to london where he hopes to seek his fortune. oliver is taken under the wing of a child pickpocket called the artful dodger (jack wild) who in turn works for fagin (ron moody), an elderly crook in charge of a gang of child-thieves. despite the unlawful nature of the job, oliver finds good friends among his new "family". he also makes the acquaintance of nancy (shani wallis), girlfriend of the cruellest and most feared thief of them all, the menacing bill sikes (oliver reed). after many adventures, oliver discovers his true ancestry and finds that he is actually from a rich and well-to-do background. but his chances of being reunited with his real family are jeopardised when bill sikes forcibly exploits oliver, making him an accomplice in some particularly risky and ambitious robberies.<br /><br />"oliver" is a brilliantly assembled film, consistently pleasing to the eye and excellently acted by its talented cast. moody recreates his stage role with considerable verve, stealing the film from the youngsters with his energetic performance as fagin. lester and wild do well too as the young pickpockets, while wallis enthusiastically fleshes out the nancy role and reed generates genuine despicableness as sikes. the musical numbers are staged with incredible precision and sense of spectacle - onna white's oscar-winning choreography helps make the song-and-dance set pieces so memorable, but the lively performers and the skillful direction of carol reed also play their part. the unforgettable tunes include "food glorious food", "consider yourself", "you've got to pick a pocket or two", "i'd do anything" and "oom-pah-pah" - all immensely catchy songs, conveyed via very well put together sequences. the film is a thoroughly entertaining experience and never really loses momentum over its entire 153 minute duration. sit back and enjoy!