almost too well done... "john carpenter's vampires" was entertaining, a solid piece of popcorn-entertainment with a budget small enough not to be overrun by special effects. and obviously aiming on the "from dusk till dawn"-audience. "vampires: los muertos" tries the same starting with a rock-star jon bon jovi playing one of the main characters, but does that almost too well...: i haven't seen jon bon jovi in any other movie, so i am not able to compare his acting in "vampires: los muertos" to his other roles, but i was really suprised of his good performance. after the movie started he convinced me not expecting him to grab any guitar and playing "it' my life" or something, but kill vampires, showing no mercy and doing a job which has to be done. this means a lot, because a part of the audience (also me) was probably thinking: "...just because he's a rockstar...". of course bon jovi is not james woods but to be honest: it could have been much worse, and in my opinion bon jovi did a very good performance. the vampiress played by arly jover is not the leather dressed killer-machine of a vampire-leader we met in part 1 (or in similar way in "ghosts of mars"). jover plays the vampire very seductive and very sexy, moving as lithe as a cat, attacking as fast as a snake and dressed in thin, light almost transparent very erotic cloth. and even the optical effects supporting her kind of movement are very well made. it really takes some beating. but the director is in some parts of the film only just avoiding turning the movie from an action-horrorfilm into a sensitive horrormovie like murnau's "nosferatu". you can almost see the director's temptation to create a movie with a very personal note and different to the original. this is the real strength of the movie and at the same time its weakest point: the audience celebrating the fun-bloodbath of the first movie is probably expecting a pure fun-bloodbath for the second time and might be a little disappointed. make no mistake: "vampires:los muertos" is a fun-bloodbath but it's just not all the time this kind of movie. just think of the massacre in the bar compared to the scene in which the vampiress tries to seduce zoey in the ruins: the bar-massacre is what you expect from american popcorn-entertainment, the seducing-zoey-in-the-ruins-scene is almost european-like cinema (the movie is eager to tell us more about the relationship between zoey and the vampiress, but refuses answers at the same time. because it would had slow down the action? showed the audience a vampiress with a human past, a now suffering creature and not only a beast which is just slaughtering anybody). and that's the point to me which decides whether the movie is accepted by the audience of the original movie or not. and also: is the "from dusk till dawn"-audience really going to like this? i'm not sure about that. nevertheless tommy lee wallace did really a great job, "vampires:los muertos" is surprisingly good. but i also think to direct a sequel of a popcorn movie wallace is sometimes almost too creative, too expressive. like he's keeping himself from developing his talent in order to satisfy the expectations of audience. in my opinion, wallace' talent fills the movie with life and is maybe sometimes sucking it out at the same time. "vampires: los muertos" is almost too well done. (i give it 7 of 10)