spoilers.....<br /><br />i saw the original on tv sometime ago and remembered this production as less gripping than most beeb costume drama. i rewatched on dvd this week and still have the same impression of it. it's a good story at first, but weakens when the heroine becomes oh so terribly brave and noble and returns to her utterly vile husband when he's ill and i got so totally irritated with her saintliness. i suppose this was the "right thing to do" when the story was written as well as contributing plenty of angst, and it was difficult for a woman to be independent of her husband as marriage made her no more than his possession, let alone to carry on scandalously with a lover as i expect a lot of the modern audience would have liked to see. but it's hard to take the santimoniousness nowadays and especially when this heroine had a strong, brave admirer ready to defend her against anyone and everyone. so re the story as in the film i'm equivocal. it's well done as per the novel, but somewhat irritating as per today's kind of life.<br /><br />steadfast hero gilbert was certainly a saint to put up with his ladylove's variable and often cryptic behaviour and persistent self-denial and to be so consistently supportive. so i felt it a great shame that when helen was at long last free to be with him, the script didn't allow him a bit more than about one minute to fall on each other for a quick hug before the titles came up. this was completely ridiculous when we'd been waiting all this time through all that dripping sentiment over the undeserving husband for a decent bit of dialogue and a good embrace between hero and heroine. instead, the ending was as though the film makers had run out of time or finance or just couldn't be bothered. "here you are - one minute, do what you can in that, then cut as the director wants to go home now....." i was left feeling totally dissasatisfied.<br /><br />however, very high commendations to the acting of toby stephens a perfect and very handsome hero, and rupert graves a superbly nasty and self-pitying villain. tara fitzgerald was satisfactory within the confines of the script that forced her to be a depressing and rather sanctimonious victim so much of the time.<br /><br />that said, i love these classic dramas and virtually all of them are a sight better than much of the "modern" drama on tv these days. so 7 stars because in spite of the irritations it's still a good watch.