i am quite the mitchell leisen fan so it was a great anticipation that i rented this movie but the print i got was extremely bad, so worn down from use and scorched seemingly beyond repair, the movie was so dark. so dark that in certain scenes that are cinematographed in the dark, you can't see a single thing. that said, i believe i share the same opinion as the first review of this movie. it starts out unusually and does not tote the lines and rhythms of your typical hollywood 30's movie. heck, not even your typical hollywod movie of any era. it seems the director has been influenced by the europeans because there is a certain caustic realism to the proceedings from the opening shot which is so crafted in camera movement and placement as maggie (carole lombard) and skid (fred macmurray) meet. you half expect them to start singing "make believe" from show boat.it starts with a few laughs and poor anthony in a one scene role where he speaks not a word of english gets slapped around by freddie. skids is a bum who doesn't care that he's a bum. that's why he signs up in the army where he can hide from the world. he's just been released though and in a set of screenplay shenanigans, she misses her boat for new york. this is when the movie kicks into high gear and we begin to get those french movie of the sixties vibes to the whole proceedings. the scenes are so well acted by lombard and cecil cunningham, the movie gains a pulse. macmurray is good too as he and lombard fall for each other as she nurtures his talent for the trumpet. then the temptress arrives in the form of dorothy lamour. enough with plot. the movie has fantastic montage sequences that dazzled me. they are very good. and lombard scores a home run in this movie but in the second half, a bit more is called of freddie and he fails to deliver the goods. with a heavily melodramatic ending and an actor you don't believe, the movie falls short but since it is not your typical movie in structure, set design, and direction. it is worth a look. for what is what it was one of the 37 hits of the 1936-37 season. i don't know its exact rank though.