i have seen "miracles still happen" now at least four times. i never tire of this fantastic movie. from the very beginning, it holds a person's interest. as the movie progresses and the plane crashes the story becomes very intense as we watch this young girl trying to survive alone and frightened in the amazon, following a plane crash in which she was the only survivor. losing her mother in this plane crash as well makes this movie even more dramatic as we see the perils this young girl had to endure during her ten days in the amazon. to think this really did happen is just unreal and to think that anyone could actualy survive this is unspeakable as we see the wild animals, snakes and other reptiles, the enormous forests and wildlife as well as countless insects. as the movie progresses we see the many dangers this girl has to face as she tries to follow the river in hopes of it leading her to a town. remembering what her father told her about how a stream will always lead to a river and then into an even larger river and this means it will eventually lead to a community, this young girl keep track of the tiny stream which eventually lead into a huge river all throughout the movie. at times having to swim in dangerous waters, alone, frightened, injured, she always managed to keep going. towards the end of this movie it was obvious she would not have been able to continue much longer as she had not eaten in ten days and only had water to drink and was very sick and tired from her perils. eventually as she sees a canoe, she realizes there has to be a village and men find her and they take care of her and then take her to a hospital where her father comes to see her, after fearing she was dead along with the many other passengers. such a dramatic movie and so heartwarming to see her father's face when he sees his daughter is actually still alive after all this time in the amazon! movies like this aren't made much those days. i will still see it again and i know i will never tire of it! to think this girl was the only one single survivor of this airplane is just unspeakable! also the fact she only maintained a few very slight injuries was even more remarkable, whereas everyone else on this airplane perished in the horrific crash into the wilds of the amazon. a brilliant movie, superbly acted out indeed and one i will treasure forever and love to continue watching! strongly recommended by me for sure!