this film reminds me of 42nd street starring bebe daniels and ruby keeler. when i watch this film a lot of it reminded me of 42nd street, especially the character eloise who's a temperamental star and she ends up falling and breaks her ankle, like bebe daniels did in 42nd street and another performer gets the part and become a star. this film, like most race films, keeps people watching because of the great entertainment. race films always showed black entertainment as it truly was that was popular in that time era. the dancing styles, the music, dressing styles, you'll love it. this movie could of been big if it was made in hollywood, it would of had better scenery, better filming, and more money which would make any movie better. but its worth watching because it is good and micheaux does good with the little he has. i have to say out of all micheaux's films, swing is the best! the movie features singers, dancers, actresses, and actors who were popular but forgotten today. doli armena, a awesome female trumpet player who can blow the horn so good that you think gabriel is blowing a horn in the sky. the sexy, hot female dancer consuela harris would put ann miller and gyspy rose lee to shame.<br /><br />adding further info... popular blues singer of the 20's and 30's cora green is the focus of the film, she's mandy, a good, hard working woman with a no good man who takes her money and spend it on other women. a nosy neighbor played by amanda randolph tells mandy what she seen and heard and mandy goes down to the club and catches her man with an attractive, curvy woman by the name of eloise (played hazel diaz, a hot-cha entertainer in the 30's) and a fight breaks out. then mandy goes to harlem where she reunites with a somewhat guardian angel lena played by one of the most beautiful women in movies dorothy van engle. lena provides mandy with a home, a job, and helps her become a star when temperamental cora smith (played by hazel, i guess she's playing two parts or maybe she changed her stage name) tries to ruin the show with her bad behavior. when cora gets drunk and breaks her leg, lena convinces everyone that mandy is right for the job and lena is right and a star is born in mandy. tall, long, lanky, but handsome carman newsome is the cool aspiring producer who lena looks out for as well. pretty boy larry seymour plays the no good man but after lena threatens him, he might shape up. there are a few highlights but the one that sticks out to me is the part where cora smith (hazel diaz) struts in late for rehearsal and goes off on everyone and then her man comes in and punches her in the jaw but that's not enough, she almost gets into a fight with mandy again. in between there's great entertainment by chorus girls, tap dancers, shake dancers, swing music, and blues singing. there's even white people watching the entertainment, i wonder where micheaux found them, there's even a scene where there's blacks and whites sitting together at the club, micheaux frequently integrated blacks and whites in his films, he should be commended for such a bold move.<br /><br />this movie was the first race film i really enjoyed and it helped introduced me to oscar micheaux. this movie is one of the best of the race film genre, its a behind the scenes story about the ups and downs of show business.<br /><br />no these early race films may not be the best, can't be compared with hallelujah, green pastures, stormy weather, cabin in the sky, carmen jones, or any other hollywood films but their great to watch because their early signs of black film-making and plus these films provide a glimpse into black life and black entertainment through a black person's eyes. these films gave blacks a chance to play people from all walks of life, be beautiful, classy, and elegant, and not just be stereotypes or how whites felt blacks should be portrayed like in hollywood. most of the actors and actresses of these race films weren't the best, but they were the only ones that could be afforded at the time, micheaux and spencer williams couldn't afford nina mae mckinney, josephine baker, ethel waters, fredi washington, paul robeson, rex ingram, and more of the bigger stars, so micheaux and other black and white race film-makers would use nightclub performers in their movies, some were good, some weren't great actors and actresses, but i think micheaux and others knew most weren't good actors and actresses but they were used more as apart of an experiment than for true talent, they just wanted their stories told, and in return many black performers got to perform their true talents in the films. for some true actors/actresses race films were the only type of films they could get work, especially if they didn't want to play hollywood stereotypes, so i think you'll be able to spot the true actors/actresses from the nightclub performers. these race films are very historic, they could have been lost forever, many are lost, maybe race films aren't the greatest example of cinema but even hollywood films didn't start out great in the beginning. i think if the race film genre continued, it would have better. if your looking for great acting, most race films aren't the ones, but if your looking for a real example of black entertainment and how blacks should have been portrayed in films, than watch race films. there are some entertaining race films with a good acting cast, moon over harlem, body and soul, paradise in harlem, keep punching, sunday sinners, dark manhattan, broken strings, boy! what a girl, mystery in swing, miracle in harlem, and sepia cinderella, that not only has good entertainment but good acting.