after having read two or three negative reviews on the main page of imdb for "pushing daisies", and having literally minutes ago finished watching the final episode, i thought it was about time i said what i thought of pd.<br /><br />first off, to address what some of the issues that i have seen other people having with this show: something along the lines of "i expect the people who have been woken from the dead to have a more realistic reaction". realistic, on this show ? pushing daisies is, truly, pure and utter escapism. it's colour palette, the dialogue used, the scenarios, situations, music: all of it, to me, is just an escape from everyday life. an escape from the mundane and boring. it is here where pushing daisies exceeds exceptionally well pushing daisies isn't for everyone: a large majority of the television audience don't "get" it, for some people it's just too out there and silly. but for people like me, even from the first episode i watched of it (season 2's "frescorts") and i was just blown away by the show. from then on, i bought both the box sets and they have barely been out of my dvd player. other people i know can't stand it, it really seems to be like marmite.<br /><br />the show follows the adventures of ned, the piemaker, with a magic finger, who brings back childhood sweetheart charlotte charles, works in association with private investigator emerson cod, owns the pie-hole and employs waitress olive snook. completing the main cast members are aunts lily and vivian, whom charlotte (chuck) is never allowed to see. they live in a fantasy world where the dead are brought back to life, everything is shown with a wonderfully bright splash of colour, and narrated by jim dale.<br /><br />other than outlining the basics of the show, i really can't praise it much more without saying: just watch it. despite being screwed over by the writer's guild of america strike, with only 22 episodes ever to be made, it provides wonderful plot twists, story lines, characters and situations while providing (for me) a satisfying ending (yes, i could tell it had been tacked on the end and rushed, but i was still happy with the way it went out). whether it is creative or just pretentious, for a lot of people (me included) it made the most addictive and wonderful viewing, and i hope for the future of television that more shows like this are created so i'm not left with just 22, 40 minute memories of what true entertainment can be.