the young dr. fanshawe(mark letheren), an avid archaeologist, is dispatched by his museum boss to the large country home of squire richards(pip torrens), where his task is to find provenance for and catalogue the collection of antiquities and curios belonging to the recently deceased father of the squire. the squire is surprised by the arrival fanshawe, he hadn't been expecting him for another week, but none the less welcomes him and gets his only servant, patten (david burke..of dr watson fame), to show him to his room, as fanshawe must stay over for some days in order to finish his rather large task. patten it would seem is not the friendliest sort and seems to resent the extra work that fanshawe's visit will entail, the large empty house providing an endless amount of cooking, cleaning and maintenance for him. fanshawe is a fussy sort, very neat and precise with everything having its place, whether they be his clothes or his books and papers and he is rather disgusted by the dirt in his room. needless to say he is rather eager to begin his work, but unpacking he finds his binoculars have been damaged in transit, so he asks the squire for a replacement pair, the squire who is a modern thinking man but also it would seem rather uncultured with such matters, is also eager to get rid of the clutter around the house, so he obliges and walks fanshawe to the top of the hill so that he can survey the estate and the surrounding villages, there the squire directs him to points of interest, including gallows hill, where locals were hung for their crimes and misdemeanours, his interest is also taken by a local abbey which the squire describes as a ruin, but fanshawe can see through the binoculars that it clearly isn't, he investigates further and pays a visit to the site of the abbey and is shocked to find that there are but a few stone remnants? fanshawe doesn't have too much time to think about this conundrum as he darkness falls he feels he is being watched, he feels a presence, he begins to see moving shadows in the woods, startled he runs home. over dinner he imparts details of his harrowing day to the squire, patten overhears the story and suggests an explanation for it..the binoculars! they used to belong to a local man called baxter, whom it would seem collected bones and skulls from gallows hill, boiling them up for some concoction or other, baxter had disappeared mysteriously one night, the late squire had acquired his belongings, including a mask made out of a skull and some old etchings of the area. these etchings fascinate fanshawe as they portray the abbey he seen through his binoculars, but he learns that the abbey had been destroyed during the reign of henry vii and so it would be impossible for baxter to have drawn the sketches, never the less they are signed and dated by baxter to the recent past so he concludes that the binoculars have some special power. that night he has horrifically vivid dreams, when he wakes, he sets off with the binoculars to have a closer look at the abbey through them, what he finds surprises him but has he put himself in perilous danger by doing so? fanshawe finally becomes trapped in his dangerous obsession, as darkness falls the squire and a search party go in search of the now missing archaeologist, they are alerted by dozens of loudly cawing crows circling above gallows hill, they quicken their speed, but will they be in time to help or save fanshawe from his destiny? the ghost story for christmas series of films made by the bbc sadly ended its initial run of films in 1978 with the ice house, they were for the most part based on the work of the great m.r. james. in 2005 and 2006 the series was revived briefly and thankfully a view from a hill also marked a return to the work of james, whose ghostly writings have haunted many generations of readers. director luke watson being new to the series might have worried fans of the older films, but he returns to the period setting abandoned by the later films which immediately sets the tone for a great ghost story, his direction is assured as he stays true to the mood of the masters works and gradually builds up the fear factor to a terrifying climax, all the while keeping what the viewer sees to a minimum, thus upping the tension and mystery. the autumn countryside provides oodles of atmosphere, the falling leaves and low lying sun providing an unsettling backdrop for the sinister events to come. the cast it must be said are all superb and are perfectly cast in their respective roles. the idea behind the binoculars is simple but very effective, the use of a man made object to see supernatural beings and events that the naked eye cannot see, may even have influenced 'alex de la iglesia in his film la habitaci'on del ni~no (2006) of the following year, with which it bears striking similarity. i had heard mixed reviews of this particular film, but i must say i found it at all times intriguing and it even raised a few hairs on my head and gave me a few shivers, something that doesn't happen much these days, i think any negativity surrounding the film can only be attributed to its pacing, which to my eyes is perfection but to modern audiences it will be seen as deathly slow. plenty of time is given, even within its brief 40 minutes running time, for character development and plot expansion and i must say its a new favourite of mine and certainly one of the better films of the decade.