imagine that you could have anything you wanted, go anywhere you wished, be anything you'd ever dreamed of being - through thought alone. now imagine yourself sharing this gift with the love of your life. what would you do? would such powers be worth your soul? this is the dilemma presented to captain christopher pike in "the cage" the now-legendary pilot episode of the original star trek series. famously deemed "too cerebral" and "too cold" by nbc brass and rejected, "the cage" was nevertheless the most ambitious and costly pilot ever made in the history of the network at the time, and gene roddenberry did not want to let all that effort and expense go to waste, with the result being this truly classic star trek episode, which embeds "the cage" into a frame story which deepens and extends the emotional and philosophical depth of this haunting tale, a landmark in tv history and one of the first truly serious sci-fi stories ever filmed for the small screen...star date 3012: the uss enterprise diverts to starbase 11 after mr. spock receives an urgent message from the former commander of the enterprise. surprisingly, the message cannot be from captain pike after all, as he is now confined to a wheelchair, mute and horribly disfigured after a tragic accident. kirk and starbase commanding officer commodore mendez attempt to get to the bottom of the mystery, but before the matter can be cleared up, spock - for reasons as yet unknown - commits an act of open mutiny, kidnapping the helpless captain pike and hijacking the enterprise via a brilliantly thought-out and timed plan aided by a few vulcan nerve pinches. soon, the enterprise is headed for the remote, forbidden planet of talos iv. mendez informs kirk that talos iv is under interdiction, and any contact with the planet by starfleet vessels or personnel carries an immediate death sentence, meaning that spock appears to be deliberately destroying himself, and kirk as well, given that the captain will be held responsible for the ship's activities. appalled, kirk and mendez give chase in a shuttlecraft, which itself becomes dangerous when the enterprise refuses to answer their calls or pick up the craft until power and oxygen are nearly gone. spock - knowing that kirk must be the one following the ship - is of course unable to consign the captain to certain death. after ordering the craft to be retrieved and the occupants beamed aboard, spock reveals what he has done to mccoy and demands to be arrested, after having set the starship on an irreversible course to talos iv. upon reassuming command, kirk demands an explanation, whereupon spock requests immediate court martial by a tribunal of starfleet commanding officers - of whom there are three on board - mendez, kirk, and the crippled invalid captain pike. spock's encyclopedic knowledge of starfleet regulations enables him to manipulate the tribunal into allowing him to present otherwise inadmissible evidence. spock presents video recordings of the only contact ever made between the federation and the inhabitants of talos iv - a journey taken 13 years earlier by the enterprise itself under pike's command. kirk expresses doubts about the authenticity of the video due to its extreme detail, but the reality of the events depicted is confirmed by pike himself, who turns out to have been lured to talos iv by a distress call from the alleged survivors of a federation research vessel which crashed there 18 years previously. among the survivors is vina, a stunning beauty said to have been born just before the disaster. pike is attracted to the girl and allows her to lure him to an isolated spot, whereupon he is waylaid and captured by the talosians, a race of androgynous humanoids with enormous cranial capacity and the power to transform thoughts into virtual reality. after pike's capture, the rest of the "survivors" vanish as none of them really existed except vina. the episode ends when the tribunal learns that spock's "evidence" is in fact being transmitted to the enterprise directly from talos iv, in violation of starfleet regulations. starfleet orders an immediate halt to the transmissions, and we wonder what will happen next...to be continued in a review of "the menagerie: part ii"!