this a casper the friendly ghost short from my childhood, and i re-watch it on youtube (thank god! for you tube); after that i love this short, and it is one of my favorite casper shorts.<br /><br />i love how the short starts off spooky with frank gallop's haunting narration; until we get to see casper sitting by his tombstone in the cemetery, reading. while every ghost rose from the graves to "boo" people, casper decides to leave in search for a friend. but in trying to make a friend, anyone who sees casper runs away. poor casper sat on a log and weep; until a little fox cub comes up an nuzzles him. casper and the little fox quickly bond and he quickly names the cub ferdie and considers him to be his very best friend. <br /><br />casper and ferdie's relationship is put in tremendous jeopardy however when casper is not keeping a close eye on ferdie while they are playing a game of hide and seek. while ferdie is hiding a hunter and two of his hunting dogs come and try to kill little ferdie and ferdie is running as fast as possible until he is out of breath and starts panting. while the hunter is firing gunshots towards ferdie casper notices they are trying to kill him and flies in the hunter's direction and pleads that the hunter leaves ferdie alone. and the hunter and dogs are terrified of casper. casper yells to ferdie that the hunter and the dogs are gone and that everything is fine. but casper sees ferdie's body is not moving and asks if he is ok. when casper sees ferdie has died he starts mourning in pain because he lost "the only friend he ever had in his whole life." casper returns back to the cemetery where he has buried ferdie and has made a gravestone for him next to casper's gravestone. casper continues mourning in pain until he sees that ferdie has resurrected as a ghost himself. ferdie starts licking casper on his cheek. casper screams for joy because he has been reunited with ferdie.<br /><br />overall, it is a really good short; though surprisingly disturbing, showing death in a family-oriented cartoon.