it would require the beauty and eloquence of shakespeare to do justice to this outstanding cinematic feat. nevertheless, i'll give it a go.<br /><br />as far as adaptations of hamlet go this one is already at a better starting point than all other versions since it encompasses the entire play. still this is no guarantee for a first-rate movie, or even a good one. usually i'm not much for movies that are overlong and the trend that seems to be prevalent in hollywood today, namely that movies should be at least two hours long, preferably three, is one that hopefully won't last long. few stories are strong enough to withstand such extensive exploration and could do with some cutting. making a four-hour-long movie and keeping it interesting is no small undertaking, but kenneth branagh pulls it off with flying colours. he has managed to make a very long movie seem no more than any average movie. i was completely engrossed from start to finish.<br /><br />the cast is excellent with kenneth branagh himself as the tormented prince giving a strong and memorable performance. he manages to convey his feelings admirably through his voice and one does not have to be an expert on shakespearean verse to catch the myriad of emotions that are waging inside him. kate winslet was a positive surprise, i must say. i didn't know what to expect really. i've always liked her well enough as an actor, but wasn't sure she could pull off playing shakespeare. well, she certainly eradicated all doubts with her performance. she is the best ophelia i have seen and lent such depth to the character and was simply wonderful. other brilliant performances are derek jacobi as claudius, richard briers as polonius and nicholas farrell as horatio to name but a few. i liked the fact that branagh used some internationally more famous stars to play in some of the minor roles; i especially enjoyed the sparring between hamlet and the gravedigger played by billy crystal.<br /><br />the setting of the play in the 19th century gives a welcome change to the usually gloomier gothic settings. it is overall much lighter than other versions i've seen, more colourful and lavish, but this does not distract from the tragedy of the play. it is exceptional, stylish and aesthetically pleasing, a definite delight to the eye and other senses as well. the music by patrick doyle is as always magical and thoroughly in tune with the movie. one can only feel a deep sense of satisfaction after having seen this. i am shocked and appalled that this exquisite work of art did not win an academy award for best picture, even more so that it wasn't even nominated. there is no way there was a better movie made that year, or any other year for that matter. this is as close to perfection as you can hope to get.<br /><br />to sum up, a stunning work of pure genius and i cannot see how anyone could top this. my hat's off to you mr. branagh.