when i first read hamlet, i couldn't help but think of the ending of outrageous fortune, where bette midler puts down the play because of how indecisive he is, and says, "give me romeo any day." five acts of a man trying to decide whether or not to kill his uncle or not? seemed like overkill to me. but upon further reading, i grew to really appreciate the play. i've seen the olivier and gibson movie versions(and part of the nicol williamson version), and all of them take their model from olivier; the melancholy dane. olivier at least did it without being self-indulgent about it, but gibson and, from what i saw, williamson, looked like they went to the "look, ma, i'm acting! i'm acting!" school.<br /><br />now here comes kenneth branagh's version, which is breathtaking from start to finish. it finished #2 on my top ten of 1996(behind the english patient, and ahead of lone star, jerry maguire, fargo, secrets & lies, everyone says i love you, flirting with disaster, big night, and looking for richard), and it's the best hamlet, and maybe the best shakespeare, put to film. obviously, branagh's talents as a filmmaker, for making the full-length version, in 70mm print, and not losing our interest for four hours, is great, but what seems to get overlooked in discussions about this film is his performance in the title role. this was my favorite performance of the year by far. branagh avoids the melodrama which actors seem to get trapped in by playing hamlet as a normal, regular human being, and makes us understand his actions and feelings each step of the way. and unlike olivier, who depended mostly on his voice, branagh uses his entire body to demonstrate the range of emotions that hamlet goes through, but since he plays him as normal, none of it seems like scenery-chewing.<br /><br />the rest of the cast is top-notch as well. i didn't even mind jack lemmon, though i agree he was the weakest member of the cast. the most surprising turn came from charlton heston; i've always found him stiff as a board, but he's quite commanding as the player king. the other big surprise was billy crystal; i thought i'd find him all wrong as the 1st gravedigger, but he was his usual funny self while being in character. all in all, a glorious film!