the image of movie studios being financially-driven instead of creatively is not without truth (in fact, it's more true than false). this begs the question why castle rock entertainment allowed kenneth branagh to create a full-length, uncut version of "hamlet" with his complete creative control among other things. of course, branagh had to agree to some concessions (a star-studded cast, and a 2.5 hour version for wider release), but why would the film studio allow branagh to spend money on a 4 hour version that they knew few would see? could they have, at least in this case, had enough respect for the material and branagh's vision to create something for only a few people? that is not a question that i can answer. whatever the reason, this is a glorious vision for those who are willing to spend four hours watching "hamlet." everyone knows the story, so i will not spend much time on that. however, unlike other productions of the play, stage included, this is a completely uncut production, which has never been done before. according to some, shakespeare never intended for the play to be produced uncut, leaving the decision of what to include to the director's discretion. that being said, i have no doubt that had he been able to see it, the bard would have been overjoyed with branagh's production.<br /><br />the film is top-heavy with film stars, although most have mere bit parts. all play their parts equally well. i would have thought branagh too old to play the part of hamlet, and while he still may be, his performance more than makes up for it. hamlet is a complex part, displaying every emotion from grief to anger, happiness to madness, and everything in between. branagh nailed it. derek jacobi is terrific as the wily claudius, whose deception and treachery sets all these things in motion; his unique voice is perfect for the role. julie christie is also very good as gertrude, hamlet's caring mother who doesn't realize what is going on until late in the game.<br /><br />the classical actors are cast in bit parts (judi dench is on for all of 60 seconds and has no lines), but at least they're in it. surprisingly, no one takes this to heart; everyone gives it their all, and it shows. special mention has to go to jack lemmon and billy crystal, who are excellent. robin williams is a little too silly, but he's not bad (his part is pretty small anyway).<br /><br />yet, this is undeniably branagh's show. he adapted one of the most famous plays in history, and in so doing, he took on a whale of a project; it's impressive that he got it done, but the fact that the film is this good is a monumental achievement. what i really liked about this film is that you don't have to be a shakespeare scholar to enjoy it. as most people know, shakespeare is difficult to digest, but branagh and his cast understand this. "hamlet" is still immensely enjoyable to just sit and listen to the actors deliver the brilliant dialogue and excellent acting.<br /><br />this is a must see for anyone and everyone. it may be four hours long, but it's definitely worth it.