first, what i didn't like. the acting was not really up to the hamlet standard. branagh was really over-the-top, doing a lot of yelling mostly. in my opinion, those actors who were not big-name celebrities generally did a better job; though i would except billy crystal and robin williams. (and charlton heston, too, but i wasn't sure if he was playing at being a hack.) a lot of the ambiguities in the play were clearly resolved one way in the flashbacks.<br /><br />what i think speaks very much in this play's favor is that it is accessible. shakespeare is hard to understand for the vast majority of people nowadays; many people are not even inclined to try, because of its reputation as serious literature and its archaic english. if they see this film they will understand clearly at least one man's interpretation of the play. they will be seeing it more as shakespeare's audiences saw it: a play with sword fights and battles, and mighty kings and nobles, murder and incest and evil schemes and ghosts--and great art, if one cares to look for it, but in shakespeare's day most didn't, any more than most people do now. branagh's overacting, and his forcing of his interpretation of the story on the viewer, may detract from shakespeare's art somewhat, but it is better that modern audiences get a piece of it, rather than nothing.<br /><br />i've got to say one more thing though. some people are complaining that "it's set in the 19th century and that wasn't shakespeare's time". well, in shakespeare's time their costume and scenery was that of their own day for all of their plays. shakespeare may have said it's in the days of ancient rome or medieval denmark or whatever, but he didn't dress his characters up like they were, he used the costumes of his own time. for the same reason his plays are full of anachronisms. for example, in king john the english and french have cannons--in robin hood's day. in julius caesar they talk of chimneys, which wouldn't be invented for another thousand years, and in henry iv they talk about machiavelli, who wasn't even born yet then. so i think this objection is silly--you might as well complain that the play isn't in danish (after all they live in denmark don't they?).