moonchild is a very difficult movie to categorise. it's easiest to think of it as several snapshots of the lives of the two central characters. the fact that these characters are members of a street gang set in an multicultural city of the near future and that one of them is a vampire does not preclude them from having moments like any other people, and this is one of the places where this movie is different to anything else i've ever heard of. it doesn't get wrapped up in the fact that one of the main characters is a vampire, it's just something that has to be dealt with like any other problem. the way the characters interact is surprisingly realistic- there are embarrassing relatives and tricks that are meant to look cool that just don't work, which leaves the film with a lovely sense of not taking itself too seriously for the most part.<br /><br />the other area that really stood out to me is the languages. the fictional city of mallepa contains various cultural groups, and characters speak the language that they would be expected to speak. japanese gang members speak japanese to each other, but chinese when talking to characters of chinese descent. possibly the most amusing exchange involves an australian and is conducted in english. the actors of the four arguably main characters have three separate mother tongues between them and speak varying levels of each others' languages, so it's quite a feat that the movie was made at all. which, i suppose, brings me to the lead actors.<br /><br />much has been made of the fact that the movie stars two of japan's biggest rockstars, gackt and hyde, as well as taiwanese superstar lee-hom wang, whether it is to praise them for their acting or criticise it or simply fangirl about them. in my opinion, lee-hom is the best at playing a straight and realistic character. however, any lack of acting ability on gackt's part is mostly masked by the fact that the character he plays is prone to being over-dramatic. i wasn't sure if hyde's character was supposed to be as sulky and sarcastic as he came across, but it doesn't really detract from the movie either way.<br /><br />there are several scenes which take rather melodramatic turns, which made it difficult for them to affect me much emotionally (although this doesn't seem to stop a lot of people). i found it's best to just enjoy the movie for what it is and not take it too seriously- it's perfect for getting out and watching with a group of friends. it does have its flaws, but overall it was very enjoyable and i'd highly recommend it to anyone who doesn't mind a few subtitles.