based on the idea from gackt, moon child took place in a poverty-stricken country called mallepa. in a futuristic timeline, the story followed the lives of the two main characters, kei (hyde) and sho (gackt) and their friends growing up together.<br /><br />despite some actions might be overly done or perhaps humorous, i strongly believed that this is a movie about friendship. even amongst all the hardships between each character, in the end, each of them wanted to have someone on their side, to have friends.<br /><br />unlike most vampire characters, kei portrayed a vampire that loathed the idea of having to kill in order to live. a vampire found friendship in the hand of a young boy, sho who's not afraid of kei. regardless of what some might've thought, i see kei as a fatherly figure to sho. kei was there throughout the earlier life of sho, he took care of him, and taught him to live in a world where power between gangs controls their lives. on the other hand, sho who perhaps can be seen as an innocent enthusiastic style young man, he grew up to be a man who realised that life isn't all about fun and games, that death exists and able to take away his loved ones.<br /><br />i love the part where lee hom, the actor who played son, first appeared on the screen. the way they met up was quite cool indeed. son also has a big part within this movie, the fact that he's from a different race, a taiwanese, made quite an impact to the friendship theme within the movie. the way how friendships were developed despite background differences was portrayed excellently in this movie.<br /><br />i believed that each actor did a great job considering that this was their first time to appear in such big screen movie. both hyde and gackt managed to act quite well and created quite believable characters. unlike movies that had musician turned actors and filled the movie with songs, they've done great acting jobs! moon child really made an impact for me, it has given friendships a new meaning and consideration, that we have to appreciate every friendship in our lifetimes. the movie shows a lot of hope, despite all the bad things that happen in their lives, that there's always hope. life can be cruel, that it seems hope doesn't exist anymore. it also shows a very strong sense of friendships between each other, even when son became the enemy, sho did have some sort of "fun" at their last battle. every single one of them desired peace in the end, no matter how far apart they've become. the ending scene showed it to us.