it must have been several years after it was released, so don't know why it was at the movies. but as a kid i enjoyed it. i just found a vhs tape of superman and the mole men at the flea market and decided to watch it again (it's been a lot of years). i wasn't expecting much, now knowing how the b movies were made at that time. but i was pleasantly surprised to find the movie very watchable and the acting by all outstanding. usual acting in these type movies leaves a lot to be desired. surprisingly, the writing wasn't bad either. forget the fact that superman went from sequence to sequence and could have kicked all their butts in the beginning, because then the story would have ended, right?! ok, the mole men costumes were hokey and not very scary (they didn't even scare me as a kid). however, making allowances for the probable low budget for background and costumes, it was a job well done by all. i recognized the sheriff right away as the old ranger from death valley days and plenty of supporting roles in tv westerns. j. farrell macdonald played old pop and was always a great supporting actor in more movies than i can count. walter reed and jeff corey were familiar faces as well from other movies. did you recognize the old doctor as the captain of the ship that went to get king kong? did you recognize the little girl rolling the ball to the mole men as lisbeth searcy in old yeller? some of the mole men were famous too. jerry maren has played mayor mccheese for mcdonalds, little oscar mayer, was the munchkin that handed dorothy the lollipop, was on a seifeld episode and a wealth of other work. billy curtis played an unforgettable part with clint eastwood in high plains drifter, was one of the friends met by the star in incredible shrinking man, he had a part in a movie i just luckily grabbed at a flea market titled my gal sal with rita hayworth, wizard of oz and plenty of other parts - great actor. john brambury was also a munchkin. phillis coates, who played lois lane in this movie, was without question wonderful in the part and george reeves as superman/clark kent was superman. he did a great job of playing the strong man. bottom line to all i've said is that this movie is worth watching because of the cast and writing in dealing with a pretty flimsy idea for a movie. but it was the 50's and anything was possible from intruders from outer space to mole men from inner space. it is definitely worth seeing, there isn't a bad actor in the group. whomever put the cast together was very, very fortunate to get so many gifted actors into a b type film. some already had a wealth of experience and some were about to obtain a wealth of experience - but all were gifted. so if you get a chance to see the film, forget the dopey costumes and just enjoy the excitement and acting. is it a bird? is it a plane? no, just a good, old fashioned movie to enjoy!