at the height of the 'celebrity big brother' racism row in 2007 ( involving shilpa shetty and the late jade goody ), i condemned on an internet forum those 'c.b.b.' fans who praised the show, after years of bashing 'racist' '70's sitcoms such as 'curry & chips' & 'love thy neighbour'. i thought they were being hypocritical, and said so. 'it ain't half hot mum' was then thrown into the argument, with some pointing out it had starred an english actor blacked-up. well, yes, but michael bates had lived in india as a boy, and spoke urdu fluently. the show's detractors overlook the reality he brought to his performance as bearer 'rangi ram'. the noted indian character actor, renu setna, said in a 1995 documentary 'perry & croft: the sitcoms' that he was upset when he heard bates had landed the role, but added: "no indian actor could have played that role as well as bates.". indeed.<br /><br />'mum' was perry and croft's companion show to 'dad's army'; also set in wartime, the sedate english town of walmington-on-sea had been replaced by the hot, steamy jungles of india, in particularly a place called deolali, where an army concert party puts on shows for the troops, among them bombadier solomons ( george layton, his first sitcom role since 'doctor in charge' ), camp gunner 'gloria' beaumont ( melvyn hayes ), diminutive gunner 'lofty' sugden, 'lah de-dah' gunner graham ( john clegg ), and gunner parkins ( the late christopher mitchell ). presiding over this gang of misfits was the bellicose sergeant-major williams ( the brilliant windsor davies ), who regarded them all as 'poofs'. his frustration at not being able to lead his men up the jungle to engage the enemy in combat made him bitter and bullying ( though he was nice to parkins, whom he thought was his illegitimate son! ). then there was ever-so english colonel reynolds ( donald hewlett ) and dimwitted captain ashwood ( michael knowles ). rangi was like a wise old sage, beginning each show by talking to the camera and closing them by quoting obscure hindu proverbs. he loved being bearer so much he came to regard himself as practically british. his friends were the tea-making char wallah ( the late dino shafeek, who went on to 'mind your language' ) and the rope pulling punka wallah ( babar bhatti ). so real indians featured in the show - another point its detractors ignore. shafeek also provided what was described on the credits as 'vocal interruptions' ( similar to the '40's songs used as incidental music on 'dad's army' ). each edition closed with him warbling 'land of hope & glory' only to be silenced by a 'shut up!' from williams. the excellent opening theme was penned by jimmy perry and derek taverner.<br /><br />though never quite equalling 'dad's army' in the public's affections, 'mum' nevertheless was popular enough to run for a total of eight seasons. in 1975, davies and estelle topped the charts with a cover version of that old chestnut 'whispering grass'. they then recorded an entire album of old chestnuts, entitled ( what else? ) 'sing lofty!'.<br /><br />the show hit crisis point three years later when bates died of cancer. rather than recast the role of 'rangi', the writers just let him be quietly forgotten. when george layton left, the character of 'gloria' took his place as 'bombadier', providing another source of comedy.<br /><br />the last edition in 1981 saw the soldiers leave india by boat for blighty, the char wallah watching them go with great sadness ( as did viewers ).<br /><br />repeats have been few and far between ( mainly on u.k. gold ) all because of its so-called 'dodgy' reputation. this is strange. for one thing, the show was not specifically about racism. if a white man blacked-up is so wrong, why does david lean's 1984 film 'a passage to india' still get shown on television? ( it featured alec guinness as an indian, and won two oscars! ). it was derived from jimmy perry's own experiences. some characters were based on real people ( the sergeant-major really did refer to his men as 'poofs' ). i take the view that if you are going to put history on television, get it right. sanitizing the past, no matter how unsavoury it might seem to modern audiences, is fundamentally dishonest. 'mum' was both funny and truthful, and viewers saw this. thank heavens for d.v.d.'s i say. time to stop this review. as williams would say: "i'll have no gossiping in this jungle!"