this wartime sitcom written by jimmy perry and david croft, who wrote tv's best programme ever dads army, was not as good as dads army, but still very, very funny.<br /><br />it is about a concert band in india. most episodes were about bsm williams (windsor davies) trying to get the concert party, who he referred to as a bunch of puffs, posted up the jungle. he was always unsuccessful as the vague colonel reynolds (donald hewlett) and the stupid captain ashwood (michael knowles) were big fans of the concert party. the concert party consisted of bombadier solomans (george layton), ginger rogers impersonator gunner "gloria" beaumont (melvyn hayes), university educated piano player gunner "la de da" gunner graham, a.k.a padarouski (john clegg), singer gunner "lofty" sugden, gunner parkins (christopher mitchell) (williams thought parkins was his son, he was quite wrong), big eater gunner "nosher" evans and animal impersonator's (kenneth macdonald), he was no percy edwards. also, heavily involved in the adventures were faithful indian servant rangi ram (michael bates), with the char-wallah and the punkah-wallah (dino shafeek and babar bhatti) giving ram wonderful support. <br /><br />the show, just like dads army left many catchphrases. rangi ram used to say to his punkah wallah "don't be such clever dickie" and he ended a lot of the shows saying "here is a very old hindu proverb e.g when wife is having affair with best friend, it doesn't stop your house from catching fire" it was williams though who had the most catchphrases. he would always shout "shuddup!!!!!", say "oh dear, how sad, never mind" and when talking to gunner graham, he would always sarcastically talk in a posh accent.<br /><br />this show doesn't enjoy the same recognition as dads army did. this is probably due to a question of taste: this is seen as being crude. williams is homophobic calling his men "puffs", though it has to be said williams is a bore. also, some people think there is a racial element in the humour, using the fact that michael bates was blacked up to play rangi ram (bates was actually born in india though and spoke urdu before he spoke english), so the bbc will feel a bit uneasy putting it on, even though the vast majority of people who have actually watched the show would agree that the show isn't racist, i know someone who is half indian, and they weren't the slightest bit offended and agreed like i did that it was a very funny show. when i see an episode for the first time, i laugh probably more than i do for any other sitcom, but when i see it second time round, i don't laugh all that much, but no matter how many times i see dads army, i laugh many times in an episode.<br /><br />best episode: the road to banu, series 1, episode 7