7 if you're a kid- 6 if you claim to be an adult. this semi-sequel to the lion king sees to spin off side characters timone and pumba, retelling the original story through their eyes, including the story of how they met. in the grand tradition of disney, inferior sequels are made, and occasionally tv series featuring the adventures of minor characters from their biggest hits. you can be as sceptical as you want about this, but kids and fans of the series will likely not care; their are enough jokes and songs and interesting things to ensure that this is one of the few above average sequels. this works because of the charm of the much-loved central characters, the quick pace, the in-jokes involving the first film, and for older viewers there are some funny gags. the animation is as good as ever, if a little less flamboyant than the original, but the plot here is all about taking it easy, hakuna matata.<br /><br />timone and pumba decide to watch the events of the first film, frequently stopping mid-film to joke about parts of it, like a real audience. we see how timone is a near outcast, he feels he does not fit in and decides to go looking beyond what he sees to find his ideal home. on the way he meets pumba, another outcast and they become friends. soon they meet simba, a lion cub, natural predator of t and p, but they form a trio. however, when simba realises he must follow his own destiny and leave the group, it is up to the others to decide whether to help or not, and how. of course the usual disney elements and themes are here, friendship, good versus evil etc. the plot is simple but works on many levels, making it smarter than your average animated movie. as the cg movies appear, disney's traditional form must become smarter, but not forget the roots which made them popular. toy story and all that have come since have been clever, with jokes to suit all ages, and it seems this is the way the market is shifting. however, there will always be a place for films like this, and you cannot go wrong buying this for the youngsters.<br /><br />7 out of 10