the shining starts with jack torrance (jack nicholson) driving to an isolated hotel named the 'overlook' situated high in the colorado mountains for an interview with it's manager stuart ullman (barry nelson) about becoming the winter caretaker. ullman tells jack that he will be responsible for the basic upkeep of the hotel but will be almost totally isolated from the rest of the world for six months as the harsh winter sets in. together with his wife wendy (shelley duvall) & young son danny (danny lloyd) jack moves into the hotel & at first everything seems fine, it's a beautiful hotel, absolutely huge & whatever they need is at their disposal. however the overlook hotel has a murky past with a previous caretaker murdering his entire family before committing suicide & danny has the ability to 'shine' which means he has psychic powers that let him see & hear things 'ordinary' people can't. as the days, weeks & months begin to pass jack become more & more insane, danny keeps 'seeing' things & people while wendy becomes frantic as she doesn't have a clue what's happening to her family, as a heavy snowstorm leaves them trapped jack finally loses it...<br /><br />this english production was co-written, co-produced & directed by stanley kubrick & is a fine horror film. it appears that the shining is another film that exists in two distinct different versions & the one i will be commenting on is the shorter european cut that runs just under 2 hours in length. the script by kubrick & diane johnson, is based on the novel by stephen king which i have not read so i can't compare them, goes for psychological horror rather than visual with only one murder during the entire film. there are very few character's in the shining with jack, wendy & danny the only ones that really matter, since the film concentrates on them almost exclusively you care for them, become involved with them & what they go through. the pace is somewhat slow but this is one film that didn't feel that long & keeps you interested throughout. on the negative side i don't think the reasoning behind jack going crazy & wanting to kill his family was strong enough to convince me, the fact that jack escapes from the freezer without any explanation bugs me & i don't know if i missed something but that ending didn't make any sense to me whatsoever, i'm still trying to work out what that picture is all about! there is very little in the way of violence or gore, a couple of rotten zombie ghosts & someone is killed with an axe but the shining is a horror film that doesn't need to rely on blood & special effects as it has a gripping story. with a budget of about $19,000,000 the shining is technically flawless as you would expect from an obsessive filmmaker such as kubrick, the cinematography is brilliant with some fantastic free-flowing & smooth steadicam shots as the camera effortlessly follows the character's around the maze of corridors, the sets look absolutely real & instead of clich'ed old haunted house themes like dark corners, basements & cobwebs kubrick brings things right up-to-date with brightly lit corridors, massive open expansive spaces & a modern decor (well 80's modern, just check that red toilet out!). the acting is good from everyone involved although as usual in horror films the little kid is highly annoying & nicholson seems crazy from the very start. the shining is an absorbing film that i enjoyed watching although i'm not sure i'd watch it again anytime soon. for those looking for explosions & fancy special effects you will be disappointed, for those looking for a good haunted house type horror with a strong story i definitely think the shining is for you, well worth a watch in my humble opinion.