to finally see what many consider to be the greatest women-in-prison film of all time, i felt like i had accomplished something as ridiculous as that sounds. boy, it sure contained the elements i expected, and delivered so much more. a constant i'm discovering in these films is the toughness and grit of the actresses in the roles of prisoners preparing for escape while their threshold, tolerance, and resolve(..not to mention sanity)being tested by their superiors. while most of them were hired for the way they look naked, because the nature of the genre demands such gratuitous elements, something else emerges, other attributes, such as attitude and guts, that i ultimately respond to.<br /><br />this, as you may know all too well, was demme's debut for his mentor roger corman, and he provides the target audience with exactly what they desire while putting his own stamp on the proceedings. for instance, there are bizarre dreams certain characters have which define their current psychological states(..there's a particular number featuring warden barbara steele where she reminded me of alex de large of a clockwork orange).<br /><br />the film has female prisoners planning a daring escape, tired of the crazed antics of their wheel-chair bound warden and her nutty prison doc, randolph(warren miller). juanita brown is maggie, the tough, sassy sister who is fed up with the environment and will do whatever it takes to get out. she's the one all the girls fear to cross. erica gavin is jacqueline wilson, the newest prisoner who was busted by police and sentenced for the murder of a cop, unwilling to give up the names of those she was involved with. roberta collins is belle, a serial kleptomaniac, best pals with pandora(ella reid). belle becomes the obsession of randolph who promises superintendent mcqueen(steele)that through a surgical procedure he can remove her violent tendencies. drugging her up, randolph takes nude pictures and sodomizes her, whimpering like a little girl due to his own mental deficiencies while hugging her naked body in his arms. cheryl rainbeaux smith is lavelle, in prison for life for murdering a scumbag whose relative was a senator. lavelle receives work in randolph's office and is the one responsible for relating his dirty antics to pandora. demme effectively builds the movie to the expected finale as a planned break-out, using those behind the various traumas inflicted on the prisoners as hostages, with gunfire erupting.<br /><br />i was quite impressed with the photographic work of long time demme collaborator, cinematographer tak fujimoto, as he is able to establish some visually arresting moments within the cramped confines of the prison, cells and rooms, not an easy task. the prison is appropriately crummy and the girls, despite being quite attractive, look the part of desperate inmates longing, yearning from the very pits of their souls, to escape such horrid entrapment. steele is superb as the warden, understanding how to take the role close to the brink without going to far, candidly able to express the madness of her repressed character within a restraint..notice how she works her glasses and settles herself without blowing her top particularly when certain behaviors she has contempt for push her teetering to the edge. cale's bluesy score is incredibly depressing, while also casting a wink to the audience that the movie is still fun-and-games..i think cale's score mirrors demme's handling of the material. cale and demme's partnership is an uncanny alliance that presents the setting as a sad, isolating, oppressive place, while, almost simultaneously, showcasing a humorous tone that permeates due to the colorful characters thanks in part to the personalities of the cast. my favorite scene happens outside the prison, as two of our girls(..joining forces with a third)interrupt a bank robbery already in progress..the kicker is it was a bank they were planning to rob! as you might expect, you get naked women in showers, prisoner in solitary, a cat fight, shootouts, attempted escapes which go awry, and other exploitative elements(..such as a horrifying shock therapy session, not to exclude the shocking aforementioned sequence where the screwy doc takes advantage of belle). interesting enough, demme relates the film to the audience without a whiff of pretension, understanding exactly the kind of movie he was making.