easily one of the ten best movies of the 20th century. in cold blood is brilliant in the simplicity and realism of its storytelling, and absolutely riveting.<br /><br />robert blake walks away with the film. the story seems to be presented almost entirely from perry's viewpoint, despite dick being the leader and planner of the pair. the viewer will invariable perceive dick as being more unstable, immature, and generally feel like perry would not have been pulled into this nightmare but for dick and his need to be somebody and pull off a big score.<br /><br />based on a true story with particular attention to accuracy, in cold blood depicts the story behind the brutal and senseless murder of a rural kansas family one cold, windy night, because dick has bought into an age-old rural myth about prosperous farmers having a safe full of cash in their home. as "prosecutor" (a character that isn't given a name in the script), played by will geer, so astutely points out, their lives are bought for only $10 a head. director richard brooks wisely chooses not to share with us the gruesome details of the murders until the end of the film, prior to this we only know it has happened and watch the lives of dick and perry slowly unravel as they attempt to escape not only being apprehended by law enforcement, but also perry's own ever-escalating sense of impending doom. he repeatedly makes remarks, "no one ever gets away with a thing like that," and "i can't help thinking we left something behind that belongs to us." dick is neither mature nor moral enough to feel any compelling sense of guilt over their crime, only irritation at perry's. indeed, after they are caught, it is dick who breaks first, and suddenly faints when finally confronted with irrefutable proof that places the two men at the scene of the crime. i felt somewhat sorry for perry from the very beginning of the film, and more-so as events progressed, but i only loathed dick.<br /><br />the genius of the film is the engaging manner in which the story is played. we do not for a moment think we are watching actors portray characters, but that we are watching the actual participants and events as they occurred. the story is unrelenting, taunt, the run time slightly in excess of two hours feels more like just a few minutes.<br /><br />for those of you who are interested in such things, i noticed a couple of the "goofs" listed here on the imdb page for in cold blood are incorrect or exaggerated. such as the "reversed" process shot, at the beginning of the film, as dick and perry are driving across the bridge into kansas. to begin with, this isn't even a process shot, the camera is actually positioned in the backseat and the image you see beyond the windshield of the car is real. a large cargo truck located to the left front of dick's pontiac creates the optical illusion that they are going backward because it is traveling at a greater rate of speed, but closer examination will reveal that they are indeed going forward and it is an actual shot filmed from a moving vehicle. <br /><br />as i previously stated, this is one of the ten best works of 20th century cinema, not recommended for the very young due to some course language and implied and inferred violence (no actual in your face gore as a modern film would resort to), but a thoroughly excellent film.