for anyone with a moderate sensibility, a moderate feeling of the human and humane condition, for anyone capable of getting above the hollywood ilk, for anyone who is satisfied seeing cinema which does not have a series of seagals/willis/van dammes blasting the brains out of anybody or seeing who gets into bed with whom, for anyone whose intellectual level reaches a capacity to grasp, sympathise with, comprehend, laugh with, cry with natural tender heart-warming hilarious compassionate human beings, `le huiti`eme jour' is waiting for you. jaco van dormael has not achieved simply a masterpiece, that would have been too simplistic; he has achieved one of those rare monumental works of art in the cinematographic world which defies any kind of encapsuling. is it a drama? is it a comedy? no: it is the story of georges, a wonderful funny pitiful laughable loving frightened beautiful personality, a sufferer of the downes syndrome. it is a story which has you laughing through your tears, but this is not one of those classic tear-jerkers; this film moves through a world that has you at once mixing your feelings of compassion or pity or even shame with those of admiration, warmth and even love. a successful banking salesman, harry, bumps into georges: they were both going in opposite directions with absolutely opposing ideas, problems and priorities; skillfully van dormael melts these two unlikely men into a warm friendship, but which is so much more than the good buddy friendship of those having a beer down the road. this is a relationship which develops into a profound needing by both for the other. the cuasi-surrealist scenes fit in perfectly: georges recalls (or invents) past scenes of his life while either day-dreaming or sleeping; even the almost phantasmagorical final scene is totally correct. the only scene which might be considered a little out of place is when they steal a bus and drive it out of the show-rooms. however, this does not detract from the whole. this film is a monument. even if your french is not up to much, please bear seeing it with sub-titles. `le huiti`eme jour' is worth the trouble. as for anything else, well, just read the following commentaries 