this film has all the size and grandeur of many of the great biblical epics of the 1950's and '60's. but it is also perhaps the first that really humanizes the biblical characters themselves. the best thing about it is that it does not diminish them in the eyes of the viewer. this is a unique and compelling balance that helps us to realize that even great people like david are flawed people who find their faith and greatness in facing their flaws.<br /><br />the actors are all first rate in the film from gilbert barnett as david's second son absolom through to the wonderful susan hayward as bathsheba. hayward is at her best in this film. her own truthful but larger than life style of acting is quite at home here. she is ever the seductress, but she plays the role in such a way that you sympathize with her.<br /><br />raymond massey does a great job as nathan the prophet. as a child when i first saw the film, massey seemed like he truly had just conversed with the lord himself and was an awesome sight. no doubt helped also by the great music composed by the always amazing alfred newman who also had great successes in other biblical epics like "the robe" and "the greatest story ever told" along with perhaps 100 other films too! the cinema photography by leon shamroy is well done and adds to the size but also the intimacy of the film. henry king, a truly underrated film director who like william wyler never really pigeon-holed himself into any one genre, pulls together a larger than life production that never loses sight of the love story between david and bathsheba and david's own deep struggle with his faith in god. the path tread in this film could have been very hokey, but king keeps it real and interesting all the way. plus we never lose the sense of mystery about trying to understand the will of god, just as david himself is struggling with the same. from the first scene where a soldier dies trying to save the ark from destruction. david is not satisfied with nathan's answer, (to paraphrase)that no one can understand the will of god. this is the journey we embark on right through to the powerful ending where david is finally confronted with himself.<br /><br />finally this film belongs to gregory peck who wonderful as king david. his david is a man you can believe could rule a country ruthlessly but was at one time a faithful singer of psalms. this is one of his best performances.<br /><br />i don't see this movie on television much anymore, but when i do i never fail to watch it. i think it still holds up very well today.