not being a fan of first person shooters i was very hesitant to play this game. after having played the demo however i was sold. "undying" really manages to pull you in the game and be part of the universe that your character is in. you have this green amulet,called the "gel'ziabar stone" that has special powers and warns you of particular events or things to look at. with a special spell "the scrye" you can see certain things that otherwise would be invisible to you. walking in a hallway you suddenly hear the magical stone whisper:" look",with the stone glowing at for example a painting. and then using the scrye spell you can see some weird and creepy stuff on the painting. let me tell you to witness something like that is scary as hell. people who expect to finish this game in a few hours can forget about that even with the use of cheats. this game relies on the character using wits and walking carefully around. because like in any horror movie your surroundings are usually pretty dark. and ghosts and monster appear at random when you don't expect them and can kill you very quickly. there is this one scene where you want to enter a room where you are pushed back with such great force that it takes moments for you to realize what happened. this was a scene that could have come straight out of the horror classic "evil dead"! to experience something like this is a real accomplishment. there are a lot of elements that take "undying" to the level of the best classic horror movies ever produced. but sadly i have to report that there are some flaws. for one thing the universe you are playing in is huge. you start out in a big mansion with all sorts of hidden,secret rooms and even a hidden hell dimension called "oneiros". that is all fine in the beginning. but with all the loading times and some difficult enemies in between that can become frustrating. and there is no map. the game demands you memorize your surroundings. so patience is required. also there are some jumping puzzles that you have to do otherwise you can't progress. i don't mind jumping on platforms in third person adventures. but in first person mode that can be an annoying task. luckily you can save at anytime and anyplace. and trust me you will need it. overall "undying" is an extraordinary first person shooter that deserves to be played by any horror or game fan.