despite louis b. mayer reportedly not being interested in signing the young greta garbo to a contract, this first american and mgm film for the actress looked quite beautiful. it's obvious that the film was assigned some amazing talent to film the production and make matte paintings, as it has all the nice polish and artfulness you'd expect from the best pictures the studio could produce. it simply looks beautiful--even 84 years later.<br /><br />as for garbo herself, like her other very early american films she, too, looks different. while she's quite recognizable, her makeup is much softer than it would become just a year later--giving her a less severe look and a gentleness about her you just didn't see in subsequent films. i kind of wish they'd kept this look, but considering how famous she'd become with the trademark look, who am i to say they shouldn't have gone that route?! the film is about garbo and how she and her family are unfairly forced off their land by the landlord. while the landlady, the much esteemed do~na bernarda, claims it's because the bank has demanded payment, it's because her son has fallen for garbo--and what better way to get rid of her than to force them out on the streets! nice lady, huh?! years pass and by now garbo has become a new singing sensation who is world-famous. when she returns to her hometown years later, her old boyfriend (who had promised to marry her but wimped out when his mother, do~na bernarda, refused to allow it) sees her. his new love for another lady is now tested--will he be content to marry this lady who is the heir to a huge pig fortune or will he want his old flame? and, more importantly, will garbo even take him back after he behaved so spinelessly? in the meantime, a huge rainstorm hits. the land begins to flood and homes soon are being washed away by the deluge. cortez and a friend make a mad dash as the dam breaks! in a scene where they obviously superimposed his row boat over the cascading stream, he eventually makes it out alive and to the home where garbo is now staying. she welcomes them inside and they stay with her until the storm passes. then, he admits that he still loves her and had braved the storm to make sure that she was safe. she tells him to get lost! next, you see ricardo about to get married to his second choice, the daughter of the pork king. he obviously has little enthusiasm for this--and you feel sorry for the lady, as she did nothing wrong. soon, cortez is seen wandering back to garbo's home--he's love-sick and needs her. in this scene, garbo is quite luminous and can't tell him to leave--as they dissolve in each other's arms. once again, he tells her of his love for her.<br /><br />when do~na bernarda learns of this, she is not pleased. evidently, a pork queen is a better catch than an internationally known singer. because of the meddling of this nasty old lady, garbo leaves--unwilling to come between the mother and her wimpy son. but, cortez comes running--announcing he must have her and won't rest until he has her as his wife. moments after making this proclamation, a family friend talks to cortez and convinces him to give her up for the good of his career and reputation. so much for "won't rest until he has her for his wife", huh?! despite cortez being a wimp through and through, for some reason she cannot bring herself to hate him. and so, he marries the pork queen and lives a very dull life. when years later garbo meets cortez again, he is a dull looking middle-aged man--while she is as beautiful as ever. and, not surprisingly, she tells him, once again, to get lost.<br /><br />at the time this film was made, garbo was not a star in the us and cortez was. so, in light of this, it's surprising they gave cortez such an unlikable character to play. instead of the usual confident valentino-like role they'd been giving him, here he is an indecisive wimp--a huge wimp. and, from here on, his career was on a slow downward spiral. as for garbo, the role helped establish her as a big star--as she was the focus of the film and played a character much like her later personas.<br /><br />as for the film, the new music composed for it was very nice, though a tad repetitive. the print, oddly, was nearly perfect throughout except for the intertitle cards--which could use some restoration.<br /><br />a most enjoyable film--expertly constructed, wistful and worth seeing. and, for one of the few times i can think of it, i have no real complaints in this excellent film.