bored and unhappy young babe zandalee (a winningly sultry and vibrant performance by luscious brunette knockout erika anderson) feels trapped in a stale and loveless marriage to failed poet and decent, yet dull businessman thierry martin (a solid and credible portrayal by judge reinhold). zandalee has a torrid adulterous fling with sleazy and arrogant artist johnny collins (deliciously played to the slimy hilt by nicolas cage). can the relationship between thierry and zandalee be salvaged? or is everything going to fall apart and go to seed? director sam pillsbury and screenwriter mari kornhauser lay on the tawdry soap opera-style histrionics something thick while attempting to tell a wannabe serious and insightful story about desire run amok and its potentially dangerous consequences; the plot goes gloriously off the rails in the laughably histrionic last third. the dialogue is likewise hilariously silly and vulgar (sample line: "i wanna shake you naked and eat you alive"). better still, this flick certainly delivers plenty of tasty female nudity (the gorgeously statuesque anderson looks smoking hot in the buff) and sizzling semi-pornographic soft-core sex scenes (johnny and zandalee doing the dirty deed in a church confessional booth rates as a definite steamy highlight). the tart'n'tangy new orleans setting adds extra spice to the already steamy proceedings. with his long, scruffy black hair, greasy mustache, foul mouth, and coarse manners, cage's johnny is an absolute hoot as the single most grossly unappealing "romantic" lead to ever ooze his way onto celluloid. the cast deserve props for acting with admirable sincerity: anderson, cage and reinhold all do respectable work with their parts, with fine support from joe pantoliano as zandalee's merry flamboyant homosexual friend gerri, viveca lindfors as theirry's wise, perceptive mother tatta, aaron neville as friendly bartender jack, and steve buscemi as a funny, blithely shameless thief. walt lloyd's sharp and gleaming cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look. the flavorsome, harmonic score by pray for rain likewise hits the spot. a delightfully campy and seamy riot.