i saw 'new york: i love you' today and loved it! i was really looking forward to seeing this after watching 'paris je t'aime' and overall i think i liked this one much better... perhaps i need to watch 'paris je t'aime' again i don't know... i read few of the reviews here about ny:ily and yes, the movie is not without its faults. when you're paying tribute to a city like new york - it can get rather overwhelming and nothing seems fair enough to do the city due justice... so without elaborating on any of the film's shortcomings, i'll just write about what i liked.<br /><br />unlike 'paris je t'aime' in which each director's short film was properly segmented and titled, ny:ily isn't and many reviewers over here have found the seamlessness of stories and overlapping of characters here annoying and even confusing. i thought otherwise. i loved how the stories just flowed one after the other and i especially liked the overlapping of characters - it might be gimmicky because it's done so often in films now. but i still liked it because i didn't find it forced. and the idea that we're all connected in the end has a wistful, even whimsical quality to it - which some might find corny but i find beautiful.<br /><br />i liked all the films but the one that touched me the most was the one by yvan attal with robin wright penn and chris cooper. it was so well-acted and scripted that the reveal in the end - again not unused in the past - brought me to tears and i was crying throughout the segment that followed. i always liked wright penn and now i'm also a fan of chris cooper. those precious initial few seconds when he's standing alone outside the restaurant, just before he gets the call - speak volumes about cooper's ability to convey a character by just being there without saying anything.<br /><br />most of the stories in this film involve characters who are either meeting each for the first time or have met each other just recently with the exception of 4-5 stories in which the characters have known each other for a long time. it seemed to me (and i might be wrong) that the stories were different but they were all trying to drive home the point, the need even, to just step back and view in a new light the people and the things we've known in our lives for a long time; to see the people and the things around you with the eyes of a stranger and appreciate them just as you did when you met them and saw them for the first time.<br /><br />the other films that i liked were the ones by shunji iwai with orlando bloom and christina ricci, by natalie portman with carlos acosta and taylor geare, by brett ratner with anton yelchin and olivia thirlby, by shekhar kapur with julie christie, shia labeouf and john hurt and once again the one by yvan attal with ethan hawke and emilie ohana when they're in the caf'e. i really need to see more work by yvan attal as i seem to like him a lot! <br /><br />overall, watch this movie with an open mind. don't read the reviews before watching it! it might not live up to your expectations of what a movie on and about love in new york should be and i doubt any movie will really live up to that conception. just watch this movie for some good music, beautiful landscape cinematography, some slice-of-life comfort and a story or two that might just tug at your heartstrings.