walt disney & his 9 old men put their own 1950 spin on the classic fairy tale of cinderella, which i guess you could say helps form an unofficial "fairy tale princess trilogy" from the classic disney years.<br /><br />the plot: cinderella is a nice girl who can't catch a break. she is the daughter of a nice, wealthy widower who loved her dearly, but her mother passed away when cinderella was very young, and cindy's father felt she needed a mother figure, so he eventually married the woman who would become known as lady tremaine, herself a widow with two daughters about the same age as cinderella, anastasia and drizella. at first they all seemed to get along, but then cinderella's father died, and lady tremaine's true nature was revealed - she was a cold, cruel, callous, heartless, mean spirited woman, and she passed those traits on to her daughters, who were spoiled, bratty, and equally mean spirited. anastasia & drizella hate cinderella because they know deep down that she's better looking and an overall nicer, more attractive lady than themselves (i.e., more appealing to men), and their mother, lady tremaine, hates cindy for pretty much the same reasons. as the years passed lady tremaine began to squander the family fortunes in a stubborn but futile quest to improve/refine her awkward, unattractive daughters (to call them "homely" would be an insult to homely people everywhere) while all three relegated cinderella to being the multi-tasking servant of the house, abusing her, mistreating her and humiliating her every chance they get (they are particularly fond of increasing her already absurd workload). that brings us to cinderella in the present, where she has blossomed into a good looking young lady who somehow manages to remain kind hearted and nice despite her abusive step family and holds on to the hope that one day the tables will turn in her favor. <br /><br />cinderella gets her shot at freedom & happiness when a royal ball is held to introduce the local prince to an eligible young maiden so that he can take her as a wife, settle down, start a family, etc. naturally, her step family tries to keep her from attending, even going so far as to physically assault her and rip up the dress she had procured for herself (with a little help from her mice friends - the dress belonged to her biological mother). finally pushed beyond her breaking point, cinderella runs out into the courtyard and cries in despair. it is at that point that her fairy godmother, a short, plump, jolly woman, arrives and provides cinderella with transportation and a transformed dress (after all, cinderella wouldn't make a very good impression at the ball if she entered the scene looking like she had just gotten gang raped). cindy arrives at the ball, the prince falls hard for her, but that pesky midnight rule gets in the way, forcing her to flee, but leaving behind a glass slipper. make a long story short - after a long harrowing quest to find the mystery girl via trying on the glass slipper, cinderella is found and she and the prince get married, giving her the happy ending she deserves.<br /><br />overall, an enjoyable disney classic. not without its flaws, the most glaring of which is that the prince is little more than a macguffin to help push the plot along - he has very little screen time and even less dialogue, so we never get to know him very well or get a good look at his relationship with cinderella (which is unfortunate since, according to the making of documentary, the prince was originally meant to play a bigger role), and a few additional scenes to help flesh out cinderella herself might have been helpful (there was a song that showed her fantasizing of turning into an army of maids to clean up the house as well as eavesdropping on her step-family post ball to show her amusement at their jealousy, which was cut because walt himself thought it made her look spiteful). still, cinderella herself is a likable enough heroine, even if she is upstaged by her mice friends, and there's a sweetness to the film that is becoming harder to find these days. of course, if this were being made now, cinderella would probably put up more of a struggle against her family during the dress ripping scene and would probably free herself in the climax (either by picking the lock herself or making an impractical yet exciting jump down from her window) but this is beside the point.<br /><br />and for all those who say cinderella sets a bad example for young girls, well, consider this - at least cinderella didn't go around getting publicly drunk and indecently exposed, unlike some modern day "princesses" (you know who i mean).