cinderella takes me back, when i was a little girl i loved the princesses of disney. cinderella was one of my favorites because i always was so enchanted by the story. any child or family members will enjoy this wonderful and magical story.<br /><br />we have cinderella who is a beautiful girl enslaved by her wicked step mother and ugly step sisters. she cleans and cooks for them without ever receiving thanks. the only friends she has in the world are the mice in the attic that are so charming and musical. when the ladies receive an invitation to the king's ball to find a lady for his son, the prince, a.k.a. prince charming, they all get excited, cinderella overhears the exciting news and asks if she could come too. her step mother makes a false promise and says if she does her chores and such, she can come too. of course, she doesn't keep her promise and destroys a beautiful dress she and the mice made for the ball. leaving poor cinderella behind, a wonderful thing happens, cinderella's fairy god mother appears and creates a beautiful dress and carriage out of things from around the house and even makes the mice and horses into elegant horses and a driver for the carriage. when the prince sees cinderella at the ball, he has fallen hard for her. all the ladies are jealous, including her step mother and sisters. but cinderella must return home at midnight when the spell is broken, all she leaves behind is her glass slipper. the next day the prince is on a hunt to find this girl who fits the slipper and is making a stop at cinderella's house where her step mother has found out about her night and locks her in her room. <br /><br />can she escape in time to tell the prince that it was her at the ball? you'll just have to find out. trust me, this is a true disney classic with beautiful animation and classic music that is so charming. you can't help but fall in love with this masterpiece. a dream is a wish your heart makes, this movie captures everything a girl could want.<br /><br />9/10