and here's yet another piece of evidence to claim that we should all worship the italian giallo and acknowledge it to be the absolute most unique sub genre in horror. emilio miraglia's "the red queen kills seven times" is a totally mesmerizing wholesome of original plotting, stylish production values, enchanting music, great acting talents and inventively gory murder sequences. it's a fabulous giallo (released in the golden year 1972) that belongs in the top-five of every fan of italian cinema. the storyline doesn't just introduce your average black-gloved & sexually frustrated killer, but blends good old-fashioned revenge motives with the macabre myth of the murderous "red queen". at young age, their grandfather tells the constantly fighting siblings kitty and evelyn about an uncanny lady who, once every 100 years on april 6th, kills seven people of which her sister is the inevitable last victim. fourteen years later, kitty has become the successful choreographer of a prominent modeling agency (even sharing her bed with the general manager) when suddenly the killing spree begins. sister evelyn would be the obvious culprit, but she moved to the states recently... or has she? complex yet compelling and involving red herrings are thrown at you every couple of minutes and the red queen character is definitely the most fascinating killer in giallo-history. her face can never be seen, but she wears a blood red cloak and produces the most ghastly laugh whenever she made a new victim. she's not exactly gentle either, as her victims are barbarically stabbed with a dagger, dragged behind cars and even impaled on fences! that latter one is truly one of the greatest (= most gruesome) acts of violence i've ever seen! what more could you possibly request? some classy and tasteful nudity, perhaps? the gorgeous female actresses got this more than covered, among them barbara bouchet and a young sybil danning. emilio miraglia isn't the most famous giallo-director, as he only made this one and the equally recommended "the night evelyn came out of the grave", but his influence and importance should not be forgotten.