there are some films that every horror fan owes himself (or herself) to see, and emilio miraglia's "la dama rossa uccide sette volte" aka. "the red queen kills seven times" (1972) is definitely one of them. with gialli and gothic tales being my two favorite sub-genres in horror, i was looking forward to seeing this film for quite a while, and even though my expectations were high, this masterpiece surpassed my greatest hopes. miraglia's earlier giallo, "the night evelyn came out of the grave" (1971) was already a creepy and highly atmospheric film which successfully mixed giallo with gothic horror, but it couldn't possibly compare to this instant personal favorite. "the red queen kills seven times" is, hands down, one of the most unique and overwhelming italian horror films ever made, and no lover of the genre could possibly consider missing it. an incredibly mesmerizing giallo with strong gothic elements, "the red queen" delivers everything one could hope for in either sub-genre: an inventive and incredibly compelling plot, spine-chilling suspense, a sublimely uncanny setting and a genuinely creepy atmosphere, eerily lush colors, stylish murders, a brilliant score, and, not least, a ravishing female cast lead by the stunningly beautiful barbara bouchet - this film simply is one of the most outstanding combinations of elegant beauty and pure terror.<br /><br />the film starts out incredibly in a beautiful gothic castle in germany. as little girls, kitty wildenbr"uck and her sister evelyn have been fighting when their grandfather tells them the story behind an incredibly uncanny painting: legend has it that a fiendish red lady is to return to the castle every hundred years and kill seven people. fourteen years later, kitty (barbara bouchet) has become a successful fashion photographer. suddenly, people begin to get murdered... director miraglia had already proved his incredible talent for style, atmosphere and colorful creepiness with "the night evelyn came out of the grave" and he makes use of these elements even far more effectively in this gem. "the red queen kills seven times" is a feast for the eyes indeed, and one of the most overwhelming italian horror films both visually and plot-wise. the haunting painting in the grandfather's castle alone is capable of giving the viewer the goosebumps. the red lady (or red queen, as she is called in the english title) is arguably the most fiendish figure ever in a giallo, the spine-chilling laughter that the murders are accompanied by would even be frightening on its own. <br /><br />a sexy female cast is always appreciated, especially in a giallo, and this one is a prime example for that. the ravishing barbara bouchet (one of my favorite actresses) must be one of the most stunningly beautiful ladies ever to appear on screen, and she is a great actress too. bouchet's presence has graded up many italian flicks, among other appearances she starred in three of the greatest cult-masterpieces of italian 70s cinema within one year (1972): fernando di leo's "milano calibro 9", lucio fulci's giallo-highlight "don't torture a duckling" and this unforgettable gem. apart from the wonderful miss bouchet, the film's gorgeous female cast includes sexy young sybil danning, marina malfatti ("the night evelyn came out of the grave"), and other beauties who are not afraid to bare it for the camera. <br /><br />as the whole film, the murders are stylish and extremely elegant, yet frightening and macabre, and some of them are quite gory. bruno nicolai's mesmerizing score is as memorable as it gets, and makes the film's intensely eerie atmosphere even more haunting. the plot is ingeniously convoluted and full of red herrings, the tension-level increses with each passing minute. "the red queen..." begins creepy and it stays stunning to the last second. overall, this is one of the films that i cannot find enough words of praise for. "the red queen kills seven times" is an absolute masterpiece that easily ranks among the finest gialli ever made, and a top-priority for every fan of horror and/or italian cinema to see. 10/10