the movie "macarthur" begins and ends at gen. douglas macarthur's, gregory peck, alma mata the us military academy of west point on the hudson. we see a frail 82 year old gen.macarthur give the commencement speech to the graduating class of 1962 about what an honor it is to serve their country. the film then goes into an almost two hour long flashback on gen. macarthur's brilliant as well as controversial career that starts in the darkest hours of wwii on the besieged island of corregidor in the philippines in the early spring of 1942.<br /><br />told to leave he island for australia before the japanese military invade it gen. macarthur for the very first time in his military career almost disobeys a direct order from his superior us president franklin d. roosevelt, dan o'herlihy. feeling that he'll be deserting his men at their greatest hour of need macarthur reluctantly, together with his wife and young son, did what he was told only to have it haunt him for the reminder of the war. it was that reason, his escape under fire from death or captivity by the japanese, that drove gen. macarthur to use all his influence to get fdr two years later to launch a major invasion of the philippians, instead of the island of formosa, to back up his promise to both the philippine people as well as the thousands of us pows left behind. that he'll return and return with the might of the us army & navy to back up his pledge!<br /><br />in the two years up until the invasion of the philippine islands gen. macarther battered the japanese forces in the south pafific in a number of brilliantly conceived island hop battles that isolated and starved hundreds of thousands of japanese troops into surrender. the general did that suffering far less us military losses then any other allied commander in the war in the pacific! <br /><br />it was in 1950/51 in the korean war that gen. macarthur achieved his most brilliant victory as well as his worst military defeat. after outflanking the advancing north korean army in the brilliant and perfectly executed, with the invading us marines suffering less then 100 casualties, back door or left hook invasion of inchon gen. macarther feeling invincible sent the us/un forces under his command to the very border, along the yalu river, of communist red china. told by his subordinates that he's facing the threat of a massive ground attack by communist chinese troops gen. macarthur pressed on anyway until that attack did materialized cutting the us & un forces to ribbons. the unstoppable wave after wave of attacking red chinese troops forced the us/un forces to retreat in the "big bug out" of 1950 with their very lives, leaving all their equipment behind, across the north korean border even abandoning the south korean capital city of seoul! this turned out to be one of the biggest military disaster in us history with the us forces losing a record, in the korean war, 1,000 lives on the very first day-nov. 29/30 1950-of the communist chinese invasion!<br /><br />shocked and humiliated in what he allowed, due mostly to his own arrogance, to happened macarthur went on the offensive not against the advancing communist chinese and noth koreans forces but his own commander and chief pres. harry s. truman, ed flanders, in him not having the spin or guts to do what has to be done: launch a full scale invasion of communist china with nuclear weapons if necessary to prevent its troops from overrunning the korean peninsula! for pres. truman who had taken just about enough garbage from gen. macarthur in him running off his mouth in public in how he was mishandling the war in not going all out, like macarthur wanted him to, against the red chinese this was the last straw! on april 11, 1951 pres. truman unceremoniously relived gen. macarthur from his command as supreme commander of the us/un forces in korea! pres. truman's brave but very unpopular decision also, by not going along with macarthur's total war strategy, prevented a third world war from breaking out with the soviet union-communist china's ally- who at the time-like the us-had the atomic bomb! pres. truman''s controversial decision to dump the very popular gen. macarthur also cost him his re-election in 1952 with his polls numbers so low-in the mid 20's- that he withdrew-in march of that year- from the us presidential campaign!<br /><br />in was gen. macarthur's misfortune to be around when the political and military climates in the world were changing in how to conduct future wars. with the horrors of a nuclear war now, in 1950/51, a reality it would have been national suicide to go all out, like gen. macarthur wanted to, against the red chinese with it very possibly touching off a nuclear holocaust that would engulf not only the us ussr & red china but the entire world! it was that important reality of future war that gen. macarthur was never taught, since the a and h bomb weren't yet invented, in west point.<br /><br />back to 1962 we can now see that gen. macarthur, after finishing his commencement speech at west point, had become both an older and wiser soldier as well as , since his retirement from the us military, elder statesman in his feeling about war and the utter futility of it. one thing that gen. macarthur was taught at an early age, from his civil war general dad douglas macarthur sr, that stuck to him all his life was that to a soldier like himself war should be the very last-not first-resort in settling issues between nations. in that it's the soldiers who have to fight and die in it. it took a lifetime, with the advent of the nuclear age, for gen. macarthur to finally realize just how right and wise his dad a congressional medal of honor winner, like himself, really was!