last christmas, i was lucky enough to receive one of the 1200 ultimate bourne boxed sets from my better half but put off watching the final part of the trilogy until yesterday. given how many recent trilogies have stumbled over the finishing line instead of striding triumphantly through it, i was somewhat wary of approaching "the bourne ultimatum" but i really shouldn't have been worried. the electric actions sequences and bruising fight scenes mix effortlessly alongside the intelligent story-lines to make this one of the very best action thrillers i can recall seeing and a sublime end to an excellent series.<br /><br />jason bourne (matt damon) returns after an apparent leak about operation blackbriar - a new program based on the old treadstone project - to the journalist simon ross (paddy considine) at the guardian. determined to uncover more about his half-remembered past, bourne picks up the trail once again but others at the cia including deputy director noah vosen (david strathairn) believe that bourne himself is the leak and start to pursue the rogue agent with renewed vigour. can bourne finally find the answers he has been looking for or will his old employers silence him for good? <br /><br />personally, i felt slightly disappointed with "the bourne supremacy" as it ditched the trademark realism of its action scenes and focused on being a proper spy film. not to say it lost it altogether but compared to the fantastic "bourne identity", it seemed more like a slow-burning spy novel rather than an action-thriller. no such worries here - every car crash, punch, kick and gun shot is heard and felt with visceral delight but thankfully, it still retains a wonderfully intelligent and gripping spy story at its heart to base the action around. it also brilliantly ties together the two earlier films, providing a suitable bookend to the trilogy as things are explained and expanded until the full picture is exposed. performances throughout are nearly faultless - even julia styles begins to offer something more than book-wormy eye-candy. the only real downer is that this, like the other bourne films, has little to do with the original novel but unless you're a die-hard ludlum fan, this isn't really any real reason to dislike a movie like this of the very highest calibre.<br /><br />nothing pleases me more than a movie that takes me pleasantly by surprise and despite my fears, "the bourne ultimtum" is a cracking movie filled with enough bone-crunching action to satisfy the meat-heads as well as a plot that never threatens to let go of your attention for a single minute. even at the final reel, you're never entirely sure whether a happy ending is assured but whether you are a fan of the series or not (and if not, what more do you want?), this is one film you really should track down as soon as you possibly can. no wonder this series forced the producers of the bond movies to throw out forty-odd years of movie history in order to start again. bourne is a modern spy hero and made recent bond films look more like austin powers in comparison until "casino royale" gave the bond series the reboot it desperately needed. missing out of the jason bourne movies is a crime worthy of rendition - go and get yourself a copy of the dvd. not the ultimate bourne collection though - limited edition, i'm afraid!