before seeing this, i was merely expecting another mediocre soft core copy of the much imitated "emmanuelle" series starring sylvia kristel. it was really surprising how good this one turned out to be. it actually has a story, and it is very romantic indeed. what makes 'yellow emanuelle' so good is it's leading heroine, the beautiful and exotic chai lee. she plays her character, emy wong so sweetly, that the viewer just has to feel something for her when her dreams crash down around her. emy wong is a much-respected doctor, statuesque, with a regal quality. she comes from an important old family, where ancient customs are still practiced. emy will remain a virgin until she is married, to a man she has never met. the beautiful doctor seems ok with this arranged marriage. it is simply how it is done in her world. however she does not plan on meeting and falling in love with the british pilot who ends up under her care in the hospital where she works. emy decides to do away with custom, and she gives herself to her western man. but only after a very long courtship, as doctor wong is anything but an easy woman. her pilot, george, is a good guy, and promises to marry emy, so that she doesn't lose her respectability and place in her rigid society. neither one counts on a third party, one ilona staller, who destroys their relationship through a series of vicious games. emy is made to believe that she has been abandoned by her man, that he only played a game with her in order to sleep with her. her place in society is gone, she has been debased. the film takes a surprisingly dramatic and depressing turn as this proud, elegant woman gives up her career, as well as a sweet relationship with her caring father, and succumbs to a life of drinking and prostitution. i was surprised to find myself so engrossed in this operatically tragic tale. i was on the edge of my seat when george blows back into town, and unknowingly walks into a hotel where his beautiful emy is working as a prostitute! classic drama. i imagine many viewers were a bit frustrated by all this drama. one would expect lots of sex and nudity here, but there is not much. and when there is, it is totally non-exploitative, and very artsy and soft-core. if you are a fan of the first emmanuelle, with sylvia kristel, than you most likely will appreciate this, lesser known classic. i was especially impressed by the extra attention to details. the whole segment where emy takes george to her fathers house on the island is really nice. her father shows george, and the viewer his impressive collection of bonzai trees. he has a whole miniature forest built out of these amazing trees. totally unexpected. after catching it on late night cable tv years ago, i spent much time searching the internet for a copy of the film. when i finally got it i found that the video version was longer. more sex? no, more melodrama. for the dvd release there is a subplot about george suddenly keeling over with some unknown deadly disease! i actually preferred the cable version better. i am glad that this rare gem has been released finally on dvd. i must also mention the beautiful cinematography and the bizarre and catchy 70's soundtrack. while watching this one you just get the feeling that you are watching something very rare, and quite special. i recommend it to thoughtful viewers who don't need sex and violence to maintain their interest.