why do i like disorganized crime so much? why do i chuckle or laugh out loud any time i think of a dozen or more scenes from this movie? it's kind of hard to explain, but i'll give it a try. first of all, it's very funny indeed - in contrast to what lots of "official" reviews want you to believe. but then again, that depends entirely on your sense of humour, so there is no sense in arguing about that. often the humour is in the dialogue, and often it is situational comedy. there is for instance this very hilarious scene in which the 4 gang members have been given a lift in the back of a truck. when the farmer drops them, they just stand there by the road, covered all over with cow s*** or whatever. they are totally unnerved; then, realizing the humour of the scene, they one by one start laughing about themselves, and ruben blades (as carlos), looking (and certainly smelling) terrible, nonchalantly takes out some mouth spray to at least do something about his breath (simply describing the scene here makes me chuckle again!). which leads to the second point: the acting. fred gwynne, lou diamond phillips, william russ, ruben blades and corbin bernsen (okay, the latter overdoes it a bit at times) all fit and play their parts beautifully - in fact, you get the feeling they must have been enjoying themselves too when shooting the film. thirdly, there is the plot . jim kouf, the director and screenwriter, is very laid-back; he takes his time to let the plot unfold and have the individual characters establish themselves. more often than not, there is no real action, and yet you enjoy these 4 very different people - who attempt to rob a bank although their boss (bernsen) does not seem to turn up - grumble about each other and even-tually, grudgingly, like each other. the movie is a fantastic parody of the typical bank robbery plot - totally impossible with all its twists and coincidences, yet utterly convincing in its love for ironic details. incidentally, the title of the film is one of the best i have ever come across, because it per-fectly summarizes the plot in a very ironic way. therefore, take my advice: watch this film, but if you don't chuckle, grin or smile during the first 10 minutes, forget it - it's not your type of film. ps. the only negative thing about this movie is that there seems to be no way to get hold of the screenplay - if you happen to know how, do tell me.