'una giornata particolare' is a movie that has a title that sounds so familiar i thought i had seen it more than once. now that i finally i have seen it, i am very glad. this is one of the better italian movies i know, with one of the most wonderful performances by marcello mastroianni, who stars in other masterpieces such as 'la dolce vita' and '8 1/2', both from the great federico fellini. directed by ettore scola, this is a movie that takes the time to introduce the characters and slowly develops a story on a special day, the day adolf hitler visited rome.<br /><br />marcello mastroianni plays gabriele, the neighbor of antonietta (sophia loren). she is a member of mussolini's party, pretty fanatic in her thoughts, and he is a member no more. the reason for that i will not reveal. on the day every person from their building, including her husband and children, is out to see hitler, they are still in the building. antonietta's bird escapes and flies to gabriele's apartment, and this is how the two meet. right before antonietta went to gabriele he thought of killing himself, again for reasons i will not reveal. how the story develops from here i will not reveal, but it is what happens between the two that makes this such a special day, not the fact that hitler is in rome.<br /><br />like i said, mastroianni has a wonderful performance. you see he is a man who desperately wants someone around him, although at first we don't know why. may be he likes antonietta, may be he is in love with her, may be there are other reasons. antonietta feels what we feel. what does this man want from her? she likes the attention anyway. we see how she does her hair to look attractive for the man. loren plays the scenes very good as well. we understand her questions, although we can't be sure what her intentions are. the moments where we find out both their secrets, if that is what you can call it, is a great moment. how the story develops from there is even more interesting, but i don't want to spoil it for you. this is a movie you should see. great performances and a beautiful cinematography, and the message it gives us still stands today.