having just finished cronicles of the heroic knight mere minutes ago i find myself extremely please but questions still loom over me. while it would appear that the first 7 episodes or so are actually a retelling of the events of the first record of lodoss war the truth is that they really aren't. it would appear that the creator of cothk had a different vision as to how the original ended (and that may be the reason that the first 7 episodes occur) but i do not find that to be the case. cothk does say it starts 5 years after the war of heros which parn was a part of. i think the director made the first 5 episodes seem so much like a recap of the original just to give the viewer a small reminder and an introduction to characters and their deeds done because they appear much less after the series kicks into spark's story. now, once the series does kick into spark's portion we find ourselves kicked up another 10 years (15 years now since the war of heros). spark and his crew do, in some cases, resemble parn and his crew once the journey kicks into gear, especially the love story that brews between spark and neese. i also thought several times throughout cothk that i threw in the original series and if it wasn't for spark's long blue hair i know i would've pressed stop more than once to make sure the right disc was in. by no means do i consider these major set backs however, the writers did a fine job in crafting believable characters and a remarkable storyline. the only thing that makes me hurt is that ashram and wagnard return. ummmm... how??? don't get me wrong both are great villains even though ashram's only villainous trait is that he supports the marmo. perhaps i missed something during the coarse of the series that explained that part. as far as sequels go though, i highly recommend cothk. i place both cothk and, even more so, the original record of lodoss war far above the lord of the rings trilogy. both of these are more epic than anything i've ever seen or read. i highly recommend this.