i rented this movie simply because rosario dawson was in it. i sat down to watch it with my buddy and 6 minutes in we were glued to our seats. not because of any intensity in those 6 minutes, but because it was a real film. no hollywood bs, no explosions, no corny one liners; film. it drew you in slowly, reeling you toward a tragically human fate. some people think they enjoy film but they are sadly mistaken. they like movies; mindless entertainment for entertainment's sake alone. michael bay's transformers and the like were produced for just this audience. no need to think people, just watch and allow ever stereotype we can muster to slowly dissolve your brain. we'll even place advertisements throughout the movie, to keep you buying our products. and don't forget the explosions, we all love explosions. here we make the distinction, art can be entertaining, but it's also thought provoking and moves you in hidden ways. entertainment is rarely artful and even then only arbitrarily. movie are entertainment. descent is a film. film is art.<br /><br />if you still house a soul within your walking meat-sack apparatus, this rape scene is every bit as powerful as "irreversable". the distinction here is that "irreversable" was a violent rape scene involving two people whose paths have unfortunately crossed at the wrong time and hell ensued. "descent" is about date rape. no less disgusting. no less depraved. just different. this is about trust violation, soul desecration and the scars that run deep. had the character "maya" been consenting it would have been a hot sex scene. but seeing as she was desperate to escape, the scene is sickening. "jared" is a sick and manipulative serial rapist, and it's wholly unsettling because it so closely resembles a passionate love affair. how could "maya" ever be close to anyone again when even in the midst of raping her "jared's" slick lover boy facade only ever hints at slipping? she is ruined.<br /><br />the film as a whole is beautiful. the camera work and lighting at times removes the surroundings and focuses everything on "maya" and the silent inner workings of her mind. all this accomplished by rosario with facial expression and gesture. the soundtrack was excellent, a blend of everything. my particularly favorite scene being a synchronism of all these film aspects working together; "maya" dancing in a sea of writhing bodies, something inside her awakening, becoming aware, all set to a beautifully sad jeff buckley tune.<br /><br />i don't think i've really spoiled anything here but i'm stopping before i do. bottom line, i think this was the best film of 2007, hands down. unfortunately it seems that everyone is so jaded these days that if you don't hack and slash, gang rape, or nuke anything then people just can't be bothered. death isn't the worst thing that can happen to you. it's only the last thing that will happen in this existence. the worst things that happen never leave you. they are always in your thoughts. when you shower; when you brush your teeth; when you buy a christmas present, when you tie your shoe; they haunt you. they haunt you until that last thing releases you.<br /><br />treat yourself. challenge yourself. watch this film.