i'm not a follower of a certain movie genre. i classify movies only as industrial or non-industrial. valentine is the second industrial movie of the director jamie blanks, after his urban legends. unlike urban legends the screenplay and the story line is very weak. yet again unlike urban legends the basic elements of the movie is so dashing and iconic, and that is what makes valentine the best. <br /><br />as the first basic and iconic element, the growing hatred of the serial killer is so down-to-earth. since his secondary school years, he has grown up with his wounds he had accumulated in his soul against his classmate girlfriends, who have made fun of him. when you concentrate enough on this first element while watching the movie, you will come to see this point of view of humanism: "noone is entirely good or evil. in fact, somebody known as evil can be secretly kind hearted." just because the story line and the direction is very weak, we are not as satisfied as we deserved. <br /><br />the second iconic element is, of course, the magnificent togetherness of the late 90s' super starlets: my favourite is jessica cauffiel who is killed within the coolest way to be killed. an arrow shot from a bow broaches her tummy and stays stuck in, while she was playing hide-and-seek with her blind date, never able to met with. katherine heigl is the first starlet getting killed in a biology laboratory while trying to hide under human body models lying on the surgical operation tables. denise richards is killed third, while she just found a valentines' day gift for her at a whirlpool bath. jessica capshaw is killed last in a confidential and unseen way, then she is calumniated to be as the serial killer. marley shelton is the unluckiest one with a vicissitude of fortune that she is going to be killed within the most confidential way that we will never know, 'cause the movie is coming to an end before she is getting killed. finally, benita ha is the luckiest one since she was not a classmate of the serial killer, david boreanaz.<br /><br />the third and the last iconic element is the soundtrack from the blind date labyrinth scene, the valentines' day celebration at dorothy's house scenes and ultimately the killing themes. everybody has loved the soundtrack as far as i know. hard rock never suits better within a serial killer-mystery movie.