this is a frank loesser masterpiece of amusing lyrics, competent themes and solid construction by those who adapted damon runyon material to the musical's "book". what is surprising about the film is how seamlessly the musical numbers flow from the storyline. abe burrows did the book with contributions from loesser; michael kidd was the choreographer, and the outstanding art direction was contributed by joseph wright. the storyline can be told in two sentences. nathan detroit, played by frank sinatra, needs cash to finance his permanent floating crap game to amuse big julie, a chicago mob boss. he bets odds-player sky masterson, well-presented by marlon brando, that he cannot get a salvation army girl to go to havana with him; masterson wins the bet, saves the mission, falls in love with the girl, gets the gamblers and riffraff at the crap game to attend a service, and tells everybody the lady was impervious to his charms--a complete lie. of course he ends up with the lady; and detroit marries hi long-suffering fianc'ee, vivian blaine. others in the cast include stubby kaye, johnny silver, robert keith, b.s. pulley as big julie the mobster, sheldon leonard, regis toomey, mary alan kokanson, kathryn givney as the salvation army leader, veda ann borg and jean simmons as the tepid salvation army girl, sarah brown. the famous musical numbers in this award-winning broadway smash include "fugue for tinhorns", "guys and dolls", "luck be a lady", "i'll know", "a person could develop a cold", and "the oldest established permnanet floating crap game in new york!". joseph l. mankiewicz of "cleopatra" and "letter to three wives" fame directed the proceedings; and the flow of the work is very interestingly and successfully kept moving. he is equally adept at getting fine dialogue acting and directing such huge numbers as "luck be lady", the varied and challenging brawl section, the havana "a woman in love" section created for the film that precedes it, the presenting of the title song "guys and dolls" and "pet me, poppa" set in the club where blaine works. the acting is very uneven. simmons seems wrong for the part at times, brando gets by with the singing and is very good much of the time on instinct, charm and underplaying, even in the comedy. scenes. sinatra tries hard but is wrong for the role for several reasons as nathan detroit; blaine is a bit too-theatrical in selling her numbers, which she of course sings professionally. leonard, toomey, kaye, keith and pulley do what is asked and more at all points. the stylized opening and closing are made to work well; all in all, this film is a triumph for loesser's amiable and subtle lyrics, for director mankiewicz as ringmaster, and for the genre of musicals itself, so ably justified in this instance. delightful and very different.