paris, je t'aime is a wondrous cinematic homage to the city of light and the city of love, a film so complex that it almost defies summarization and reviewing. ask a large group of people their impressions of life in paris and the result would be something akin to this film. tied together by each of the sectors or arrondissement of the city, the film examines love in all forms, native folk in their parisian modes, and tourists interacting with the great city. approximately twenty writers and directors, each with about five minutes of screen time, include olivier assayas, the coen brothers, sylvain chomet, isabel coixet, wes craven, alfonso cuar'on, g'erard depardieu, christopher doyle, vincenzo natali, alexander payne, walter salles, nobuhiro suwa, and gus van sant among others less well known. the stories vary from hilarious, to humorous, to touching, to tragic, to banal, to tender.<br /><br />in one story a young frenchman (gaspard ulliel) is attracted to a young lithographer (elias mcconnell), pouring out his heart in french to a lad who speaks only english. in another a separated husband and wife (gena rowlands and ben gazzara) meet in the latin quarter to finalize divorce proceedings while another couple in p`ere-lachaise (emily mortimer and rufus sewell) approach marriage without connection until the spirit of departed oscar wilde intervenes. steve buscemi in tuileries confronts superstition in a subway with his bag of tourist collections, in bastille sergio castellitto (in love with mistress leonor watling) is ready to divorce his wife miranda richardson until she confides she has terminal leukemia, juliette binouche confronts agony about her son's fantasies and loss in place des victoires with the help of a mythical cowboy willem defoe, sara martins and nick nolte and ludivine sagnier display a keen tale of mistaken ideas in parc monceau, fanny ardant and bob hoskins 'play out' a strange relationship in pigalle, melchior beslon plays a young blind man to actress natalie portman in learning how to see in faubourg saint-denis, vampire love between elijah wood and olga kurylenko in quartier de la madeleine, maggie gyllenhaal is an ex-patriot actress stung out on drugs in quartier des enfants rouges, and margo martindale is a visiting tourist letter carrier trying desperately to speak the french she has studied for her life's trip in a tenderly hilarious 14`eme arrondissement.<br /><br />the final few minutes of the film tries to tie together as many of the stories as feasible, but this only works on superficial levels. the film is long and there are no bridges between the many stories, a factor that can tire the audience due to lack of time to assimilate all of the action. but it is in the end a richly detailed homage to a great city and supplies the viewer with many vignettes to re-visit like a scrapbook of a time in paris. it is a film worth seeing multiple times! grady harp