robert altman is my favorite american director. i must admit that i have enjoyed the films that are usually scorned: "quintet", if only for giving me the pleasure of seeing a grown-up and beautiful brigitte fossey, who was unforgettable as the little girl in "forbidden games"; "health", for having lauren bacall, carol burnett, alfre woodard and glenda jackson, all in the same cast; "popeye", for that splendid and surreal world, shelley duvall's olive oyl and the wonderful malta locations; "o.c. & stiggs", for its proposal of an anti-"adolescents flick"; "beyond therapy", for all its lunacy and for the presence of gen`evieve page, who for all her effort to look parisian chic is taken for a travestite... i have even enjoyed his one-act tv movies, like "the dumb waiter" and "the laundromat". when there is not much plot to develop in his films, you have wonderful performances, from burnett, john travolta, kim basinger or jane curtin. i perceive and enjoy the different approach and description he makes of the many different cultures of the united states. it is a pity that his genius is seldom appreciated, and that he is always forgotten when the time comes for giving out american prizes and awards. he is not your typical mainstream purveyor of fantasies. he is more of a maverick. so it is not surprising for me to find so many bad comments posted here about "the gingerbread man", his most 'mainstream' effort to date and to my knowledge. i did not know there were so many people who thought like leonard maltin, who does not like altman at all. in this case, one may dislike "the gingerbread man", but for me the reason has more to do with grisham than with the director-screenwriter. some of altman's trademarks are here: improvised dialogue, great performances, a funny lawyers' office with typical irreverent receptionist and secretary. while some people find it boring, i found the first act fascinating, thanks also for the great cinematography by changwei gu, the man who shot "red sorghum", "ju dou" and "farewell my concubine". he has a way of showing us the same things we see in other american movies, but under a different light. through his "foreigner's gaze", almost everything seems new and different. in this first act, things were so logical and true! wait until you get older. you may get in trouble if you fall under the spell of someone younger and beautiful as embeth davidtz. i know for myself what i have done fascinated by someone who is younger than i am! then you have robert duvall's repellent, menacing and mysterious character, while that geraldo storm is threatening savannah. the second act gets a little phony and even funny, because altman may have conducted it with a grin. i remember laughing aloud in several instances with his ironic remarks. i think he was applying a bit of brecht, distancing us, preparing us for the third act, which is plain hollywood pastiche. altman does it with expertise. being a wise man, and an intelligent director, luckily he did not fall into the traps of today's action movies. he was directing a tale of lust, greed and death. i was not disappointed a bit with the movie. if i give it a nine instead of 10, it is because of grisham. the american reader has turned him into a best-selling author. so why complain? maybe we should thank altman for showing us the seams in his stories, the dullness, the flatness and the silliness of them all. however, he does it with so much gusto and humor, that i cannot but disagree with the negative comments. for me, these persons saw another movie... and vice versa.