steven spielberg wanted to win an oscar so bad that he figured that he wouldn't win by directing special effects epics (he was nominated for three of them: "close encounters of the third kind", "raiders of the lost ark", and "e.t.: the extra-terrestrial". so he decided to get very serious by directing "the color purple", a period film with no special effects. spielberg's first serious drama is a remarkable movie. but the academy voters who voted back in 1985 still didn't give spielberg any respect. "the color purple" received 11 oscar nominations including best picture, but spielberg was unfairly snubbed when he wasn't nominated for best director. it got worse on oscar night when this film didn't win a single oscar. it got completely shut out. that wasn't right. "the color purple" should have won a couple of oscars including one for whoopi goldberg's spectacular film debut as celie, a woman who suffers at the hands of an abusive husband (frightfully placed by danny glover), then gets stronger throughout the film thanks to some special friends. oprah winfrey also made her film debut here and gives a great performance as sofia, one of those friends' of celie. since i'm from chicago, i had already known winfrey from her talk show (which at the time of this films' release hadn't gone nationwide). like goldberg, what a film debut! margaret avery is terrific as shug avery, another friend who also happens to be the mistress of celie's rotten husband. all three actresses received well-deserved oscar nominations for their work here (goldberg for best actress; winfrey and avery for best supporting actress). set in the south during the first half of the 20th century, "the color purple" is a film so strong that it made me cry at the end. it also made me laugh at times too. why academy voters were so hard on not nominating spielberg for best director is a mystery that still puzzles me today. but spielberg would eventully go on to win two oscars years later for "schindler's list" and "saving private ryan", making him one of the best movie directors of all-time. but he should have gotten nominated for this movie. the job that he did going from special effects blockbusters like "e.t." to a serious drama like "the color purple" was remarkable.<br /><br />**** (out of four)