will and ted's bodacious journey is an existential trip through themes of mortality, religion, time, heaven and hell, man's quest for fame and his fears of the body being overcome by a soulless machine. it is the most intelligent work of fiction since paradise lost and references many great past works of art- dante, iron maiden, virgil, shakespeare. this time the dudes are a famous rock band having travelled through time collecting icons from the past- napolean, joan of ark (noah's wife), oscar wilde, and charles darwin. they took the skills they learned from each of these people, abducted a couple of princesses, and finally learned to play their guitars and write hit songs. these songs teach the world to love again and war, hunger, evil are vanquished for eternity. we fast forward into the distant future where an evil dictator who despises good music called simon cow-al wants to rule the world. he eats rooshus (the cool guy from the first film who helps bill playboy esquire and ted theodore alvin) and gains the power to send two cyborgs back in time. the cyborgs are living tissue over metal exoskeleton and coated in mimetic poly alloy allowing them the survive the turmoil of time travel, and they can imitate anything they sample by physical contact. it is their job to kill the good biff and fred and take over their lives by making terrible music that no-one could like. by doing this they will change the world forever- gryll and jed's music will never be made leaving a world of war, famine, and hatred, and more annoyingly, bland boy/girl group pop music. there is a startling twist as the good guys actually are killed and they have to work out a way to save the world, themselves, and their wives from the evil dopplebangers inhabiting their bodies.<br /><br />penelope spheerhead shows her knowledge of both youth culture and real culture by mixing modern day music and phrases with post modern sets and artistic references, and seeks to teach us all something by delving into our very psyche to show us ourselves. she presents the nightmares which faced the late 80s teen in a society which had abandoned them and beckons us to dissect the post structuralist jingoism, self love, and malaise of the time. charging us with a belief that we can indeed change the world it is an inspiring message, but in order to achieve such dreams we must traverse and indeed face our nightmares. to overcome is to succeed, to defeat death is the first step in truly living and not merely surviving. in the words of kenneth reeves- 'wow!' best scene: for a fun game- see how many songs, bands, and albums cover references you can spot throughout the film. there are at least 6.