1991 saw the release of the two best sequels of all time: terminator 2: judgment day and bill & ted's bogus journey. out of the two, i've always liked bill & ted's bogus journey a bit better. terminator 2: judgment day is the better made, but there's just nothing like bill and ted. besides chris farley and david spade in tommy boy, it's hard to think of a greater comedic duo than bill and ted. they are one of a kind.<br /><br />seemingly influenced by national lampoon's o.c. and stiggs, bill and ted were created by ed solomon and chris matheson, two incredibly talented writers who invented the duo while performing at a local theater in l.a. back in the 1980s. the two quickly began writing a screenplay about two and before long bill & ted's excellent adventure was born. the film, shot in 1987 and released in 1989, became a big box office success and an instant cult classic. it wasn't long before work began on the sequel. stephen herek, the director of 'excellent adventure' wasn't keen on working on the sequel since he considered it to be too mean-spirited and unlike the first one so peter hewitt, making his feature film debut, was brought in to direct the sequel. there couldn't have been a better director for the job. bill & ted's bogus journey is marvelously directed. it's filled with its own unique style and energy that can't be matched.<br /><br />what makes 'bogus journey' one of the best sequels ever is that it while it is darker than the original, it is just as fun. it doesn't change the characters like most sequels do. bill and ted are the same lovable characters that they were in the first film. this is because it was written by the original writers. most sequels are not written by the same writers as the first one, but since 'bogus journey' had the same screenwriters, it ended up being just as good as 'excellent adventure' if not even better. just like the first one, 'bogus journey' is absolutely hilarious, well written, fun, and above all, original. it's filled with spectacular special effects and fantastic comedic performances from alex winter, keanu reeves, and william sadler. it's an unforgettable 'journey'. 10/10