when you start watching this animation-masterpiece, you quickly notice, that it's a european production. although the europeans have (sadly) integrated some of the clich'es you would normally find in an american production of this kind, most are missing. one of these is that there is an overwhelming evil that only our (very few and very unlikely) heroes can vanquish. another is that one of the group is only in the business for the money, is greedy, runs away when the heat is up but somehow gives in to his better nature. this movie would have been better off without both.<br /><br />the movie is based upon a tv-series that was out four years before the movie. unlike the movie, the tv-series is a cartoon and not a computer animation. at first i thought the computer would kill the charm and character of the plot but i was quickliy convinced: whoever did the animation knew his or her stuff! although the characters are obviously fictional (in stills they don't even look real), they seem as alive and sentient as the audience following their quest. making characters who by "normal" standards could be considered deformed (those micro-legs could never carry that giant body let alone make it jump) so alive and lovable is more than "just a highlight"! the creation of the world is another masterpiece. not so much because of its looks but because of the inventiveness of it. the world our heroes travel is not solid like our own but is made of many pieces of land varying in shape and size that seem to be floating in mid air. when a person steps on a smaller fragment of ground, it nods a little bit as if feathering from the weight. in some cases up and down no longer apply but our heroes still manage to get a foothold somewhere. although the world of floating islands is completely surreal, in this movie it is absolutely believable and after a short time it doesn't seem any weirder than running into a car somewhere in new york.<br /><br />i wrote that the looks of the world aren't as breathtaking as the idea. as true as that might be to my mind, the quality of the world, the characters and the attention to details is staggering. although the faces of the characters have relatively few attributes, emotions can be read as clearly as in sean connery's or dustin hoffman's face. the world around the characters is wonderfully colourful and no two settings are alike. the background is always in motion, something is always going on which makes the world seem even more alive. if you stop the movie and look at the background you will be surprised how many details you can find.<br /><br />the existence of hector actually puts the cherry on top. hector is a furry little "thing" (possibly the equivalent of a dog in our world) who is totally lovable and extremely funny. although he isn't really important for the main plot, he would be missed like scrat would be in ice age. the really cool thing about hector is that you need to speak gibberish to understand him.<br /><br />if the movie is so great, why didn't i give it 10 stars? well, the plot in itself was rather thin. two hunters are sent out to rescue the world from a really bad dragon who wants to swallow the world, isn't really original. that in itself wouldn't be much of a problem. what i missed was the background information. what kind of a dragon was this and why did it look that way? i love mythical stories but if they get too thin then they seem to be written after the movie is finished in a feeble attempt to give the whole thing some depth.<br /><br />another thing i didn't like was zo'e. although a little girl like her could be considered adorable, she was somewhat of a pain in this movie. she seemed pretty resistant to all types of learning about reality, kept dreaming of some hero from a story book and basically slowed the others down. she would have been ok if she had developed a little more and a little earlier in the movie - or had been less of a girly to start with. to me the idea of this girl who was there to twist the story a little backfired on the writers.<br /><br />all in all, this is a really good movie for just about all ages.