secret sunshine (2007) is famous for its awards at the festival de cannes in 2007 and other film festivals. jeon-do yeon, who played the newly widowed shin-ae, won the best actress trophy at the 60th cannes festival. secret sunshine was also a winner of best feature film and jeon-do yeon received a best actress nod from asia pacific screen awards. in addition, this movie won the best film awards in virtually all korean film festivals. masterfully written and directed, and uniquely photographed, secret sunshine expressed the hope and salvation that can be found when life is painful because of continuous tragedy. this film also talked about the forgiveness of god and people. lee chang dong, director and writer of this movie, said in an interview, "in a vast sense, i wanted to express what love is and this movie could be a melodrama in a sense. without love, we can't talk about hope and salvation." lee acknowledged that secret sunshine had no apparent genre. this movie is not a movie about religion, but it drew attention from many christians in korea because there were a lot of christian elements in the movie.<br /><br />the turning point in secret sunshine comes when jun, shin-ae's son, is kidnapped and killed. the kidnapper asks for money because he presumes that since she can buy land, she must be rich. her lie causes much sorrow.<br /><br />shin-ae becomes a church-goer and wants to forgive the murderer. she decides to visit her son's murderer in prison and forgive him. jong-chan, shin-ae's guy friend, says, "just forgive in your heart. do you have to go to the prison?" her church fellows cheer for her and say they will pray for her. her pastor agrees with what she wants to do. that is a sad moment because it is too early for her to do an action. the result of the meeting with the murderer is another turning point in shin-ae's life. the murderer says with a peaceful smile that he has already been forgiven by god. this sparks anger in her toward god. she says, "how could you forgive the man before i forgive?" <br /><br />she begins to fight against god. she looks up to the sky and proclaims, "i won't lose to you." she becomes a snare, her heart is a trap, and her hands are chains. it is more bitter than death. she becomes crazier and crazier and is sent to a mental hospital. on the day shin-ae is discharged from the hospital, she goes to a beauty shop and sees a familiar face. the daughter of her son's murderer works in the shop and cuts her hair. the murderer's daughter has helped kidnapped shin-ae's son. while she cuts shin-ae's hair, the protagonist can't understand what's going on and gets out of the shop quickly.<br /><br />it is difficult not to talk about jong-chan in the movie. jong-chan does his best to be by shin-ae's side. although shin-ae doesn't care about him at all, he is beside her all the time. shin-ae leaves church quickly, but jong-chan, who started attending church because of shin-ae, stays there because he feels peace with god. lee chang-dong, the director of secret sunshine, says that jong-chan is like milyang( secret sunshine), the rural city or vice versa. he seems to "be too secular and frivolous, but he is always two steps behind her and takes care of her. milyang is like him." mr. lee adds, "someone joked that jong-chan could be an angel. i think that he could be the angel. who knows? we can't say for sure that there is no angel." if there is a person like jong-chan who forever accompanies his lover's twists and turns, we can defend ourselves against the overpowered. the life of shin-ae is full of meaninglessness. her husband died after he cheated on her, and her only son was killed cruelly by a murderer after she moved to her husband's hometown. and her soul was damaged because she learned christianity in a wrong way