paul verhoeven has one of the strangest oeuvres of any major director: he started off making art-house films in his native netherlands before moving to hollywood where he began making subversive genre pieces which are often seen as mere entertainments by the mainstream crowd. 1983's the fourth man was the last film he made before moving to the u.s. and it seems to have been a transitional film for him.<br /><br />from the beginning of the fourth man it's clear that the film will be seen from the perspective of the famous albeit impoverished author gerard. in a seeming homage to carol reed's similarly titled 1949 film the third man the film begins with an author making a trip to speak to a crowd of literature enthusiasts. the similarities end there, however, as gerard runs into no major complications before arriving at the auditorium and the speech itself goes fairly smoothly. in spite of the relative ease with which he completes this function we know that the author is somewhat troubled as he has realistic fantasies about murdering his roommate before leaving his house and he also has a surreal fantasy involving a hotel he sees advertised and a detached eyeball growing out of a door's peephole. that he sometimes has trouble keeping his fantasies separate from reality is made all the more clear when an anecdote he tells is exposed as untrue and he admits that he "lie{s} the truth until {he} no longer knows whether something did or didn't happen." <br /><br />the fourth man is full of surreal fantasies and dreams which are made all the more disturbing because it's very easy to see how they relate to events which we have seen occur and because they sometimes foreshadow events which haven't occurred yet. between the effectiveness of the unreal sequences and verhoeven's careful editing style this ends up being the most atmospheric film this side of don't look now and like that film this one is full of ambiguity. unlike that film the fourth man is also perversely funny as gerard's deeply held catholic beliefs seep into every aspect of his life including sexuality. he naturally associates a female hair stylist he knows intimately with the biblical delilah though he fears she'll remove an even more important symbol of masculinity with her scissors. in an erotic fantasy sequence that would make luis bu~nuel blush he substitutes a man he's attracted to for a life size statue of christ on the cross.<br /><br />the fourth man is a horror film which manages to bring the viewer into the mind of the protagonist while still maintaining a certain ambiguity: it certainly seems as if gerard is in danger but it may just be more of his "lying the truth." the film is also full of both subtle and not so subtle visual symbolism which helps make it a unique and satisfying cinematic experience.