viewing de vierde man (aka the fourth man) is a slightly unsettling and rather fascinating experience. it's a very tight and intense psychological mystery/thriller from netherlands's paul verhoeven. he directed this film just before he got big with his "free-ticket to hollywood"-movie flesh + blood. in a lot of user-comments on this site i noticed the mentioning of alfred hitchcock. indeed, this movie might very well be hitchcockian, but i also noticed touches of early cronenberg (the visceral), flavors of david lynch (surreal story-linked visuals) and even roman polanski (plot-wise set-up). funny thing is that the movies by those directors i was thinking of while watching de vierde man weren't made until after 1983, the year of release of the fourth man. so go figure.<br /><br />very much credit indeed must be given to the story of the original novel by gerard reve this movie is based on. gerard reve is also the fictional name of the main character (a tormented writer, played by jeroen krabb'e, balancing on the dangerous line of a severe psychosis). now, has anybody stopped and thought about the fact that the word "r^eve" is french for "dream"? and the film does feature a lot of dream-like/nightmarish sequences, often to that extend that you don't always know for sure if gerard is awake or dreaming himself. could this be coincidence...? maybe it's just me, but i don't think so. ren'ee soutendijk is pretty amazing as the leading lady (in a rather demanding role). she sometimes seems to be guilty of over-acting (in a subtle way). but that aspect was clearly intentional to portray the character she plays, since as this movie progresses, you become unsure about what to actually think of this lady and her intentions. proves again what an excellent actress she is. i might add that the movie contains also several scenes portraying full frontal male & female nudity, as well as some rather explicit sex-scenes (and you will even notice that some scenes and aspects clearly were the blueprints of scenes later to be shot for verhoeven's basic instinct).<br /><br />another aspect this movie has is a lot of symbolism and biblical references/images, which supposedly made the film thoroughly hated by some conservative/catholic movements at the time of its european release. either way, it makes the movie worthy of a second viewing. now, someone recently told me he had grave misgivings about de vierde man. one of them being that the film supposedly manoeuvers itself into a position where it needs the divine intervention of the virgin mary to resolve itself. i myself have big issues with the way catholicism has been, and still is sometimes, portrayed in many movies in any genre (so not only when it comes to religiously themed horror movies). but surprisingly, i had no misgivings whatsoever when it comes to the fourth man. although the virgin mary-aspect in the plot did make me scratch my head at one point, i also had fun with it, in a way. i think the keyword as to why it didn't bother me at all is 'duality'. because, this movie works on two levels. although 'divine intervention' might have resolved the plot-line from the protagonist's point of view... on the other hand: the movie implies that all this might have been the delirious ramblings of a raving madman. and that's the fun part: you never know for sure. and then there's the question: could it be that gerard reve was somehow receiving distorted visions of things to come... like receiving omens? at one point in the movie, gerard even tries to fool christine into believing he is clairvoyant. the way he is playing christine in that particular scene is exquisite to behold.<br /><br />so with its compelling story, convincing acting performances and adequate direction, de vierde man is a very much recommended viewing indeed (especially if you enjoy a solid european psychological horror film). but make sure you see the original dutch version (not the dubbed one).