the morbid catholic writer gerard reve (jeroen krabb'e) that is homosexual, alcoholic and has frequent visions of death is invited to give a lecture in the literature club of vlissingen. while in the railway station in amsterdam, he feels a non-corresponded attraction to a handsome man that embarks in another train. gerard is introduced to the treasurer of the club and beautician christine halsslag (ren'ee soutendijk), who is a wealthy widow that owns the beauty shop sphinx, and they have one night stand. on the next morning, gerard sees the picture of christine's boyfriend herman (thom hoffman) and he recognizes him as the man he saw in the train station. he suggests her to bring herman to her house to spend a couple of days together, but with the secret intention of seducing the man. christine travels to k"oln to bring her boyfriend and gerard stays alone in her house. he drinks whiskey and snoops her safe, finding three film reels with names of men; he decides to watch the footages and discover that christine had married the three guys and all of them died in tragic accidents. later gerard believes christine is a witch and question whether herman or him will be her doomed fourth husband. <br /><br />the ambiguous "the vierde man" is another magnificent feature of paul verhoeven in his dutch phase. the story is supported by an excellent screenplay that uses catholic symbols to build the tension associated to smart dialogs; magnificent performance of jeroen krabb'e in the role of a disturbed alcoholic writer; and stunning cinematography. the inconclusive resolution is open to interpretation like in many european movies that explore the common sense and intelligence of the viewers. there are mediocre directors that use front nudity of men to promote their films; however, paul verhoeven uses the nudity of gerard reve as part of the plot and never aggressive or seeking out sensationalism. last but not the least; the androgynous beauty of the sexy ren'ee soutendijk perfectly fits to her role of a woman that attracts a gay writer. my vote is eight.<br /><br />title (brazil): "o 4o homem" ("the 4th man")