paul verhoeven's predecessor to his breakout hit 'basic instinct' is a stylish and shocking neo-noir thriller. verhoeven has become known for making somewhat sleazy trash films, both in his native holland and in america and this film is one of the reasons why. the fourth man follows the strange story of gerard reve (played by jeroen krabb'e); a gay, alcoholic and slightly mad writer who goes to vlissingen to give a talk on the stories he writes. while there, he meets the seductive christine halsslag (ren'ee soutendijk) who takes him back to her house where he discovers a handsome picture of one of her lovers and proclaims that he will meet him, even if it kills him.<br /><br />paul verhoeven twists the truth many times in this film, and that ensures that you never quite know where you are with it. many of the occurrences in the fourth man could be what they appear to be, but they could easily be interpreted as something else entirely and this keeps the audience on the edge of their seats for the duration, and also makes the film work as this narrative is what it thrives on. paul verhoeven is not a filmmaker that feels he has to restrain himself, and that is one of things i like best about him. this film features a very shocking scene that made me feel ill for hours afterwards (and that doesn't happen very often!). i wont spoil it because it needs the surprise element to work...but you'll see what i mean when you see the film (make sure you get the uncut version!). there is also a number of other macabre scenes that are less shocking than the one i've mentioned, but are lovely nonetheless; a man gets eaten by lions, another one has a pipe sent through his skull, a boat is smashed in half...lovely.<br /><br />the acting in the fourth man isn't anything to write home about, but it's solid throughout. jeroen krabb'e holds the audience's attention and looks the part as the drunken writer. it is ren'ee soutendijk that impresses the most, though, as the femme fatale at the centre of the tale. her performance is what sharon stone would imitate nine years later with basic instinct, but the original fatale did it best. paul verhoeven's direction is solid throughout as he directs our attention through numerous points of view, all of which help to create the mystery of the story. verhoeven has gone on to make some rubbish, but he obviously has talent and it's a shame that he doesn't put it to better use. of all the verhoeven films i've seen, this is the best and although it might be difficult to come across; trust me, it's worth the effort.