this rather poorly named western series won an emmy for best syndicated program and is certainly an interesting series. it was produced by republic, the studio which did action better than anyone, and they put their best into it. each episode was built around a real historical figure of the old west. a railroad detective named matt clark, similar to the later elliot ness with the gangsters of the 1920's and 30's, managed to become involved with almost every notorious western outlaw between the middle of the 1800's and wwi. the series' best asset was jim davis. tall, rugged, ruggedly good looking, in prime shape, with an authentic western accent, and great riding skills which made him utterly convincing in the action scenes, davis was every inch the western hero. he was teamed with two lovely and active co-stars, mary castle as "frankie" during the first season, and kristine miller as "jonesy" during the second. each worked well with davis.<br /><br />what separated this show from its contemporaries and much of what came later was the professionalism invested in the action scenes. ace action directer william witney directed 30 episodes. franklin adreon the rest. both filmed the action with polish. republic's vast store of stock footage from serials and b's was utilized to give scope. the level of individual episodes rose or fell with the quality of the guest stars brought in to the play the outlaws. among the really good ones were marie windsor as belle starr, lee van cleef as jesse james, fess parker as grat dalton, jean parker as cattle kate, and joe sawyer and slim pickins as butch cassady and "the smilin' kid". the cream of the western up and comers, pickins, parker, denver pyle, james best, and richard jaeckel, honed their craft. b veterans with decades of experience under their belts, harry woods, glenn strange, kenneth macdonald, earle hodgkins, steve darrell, and chief yowlachie, provided the old leather feel of vintage westerns.<br /><br />the weakness of the concept was that there are only so many famous western outlaws. by the second season the famous figures were becoming a mite obscure for all by the most dedicated history buff. nevertheless, a few of the later shows were a match for any, due to the guest stars. henry brandon portrayed rustler nate champion, and former republic star don barry was outstanding as small-time outlaw milt sharp.<br /><br />western fans or history buffs will want to see this.