rouen prizes and the triumph of "villa paranoia" the favorite film of the general public, actually more important than the jury prize, was erik clausen's brilliant bittersweet dramatic comedy, "villa paranoia", which was also selected by the european youth jury indicative of its appeal to cinephiles of all ages. the following day director-actor clausen traveled to the remote town of mamers, pays de loire, for a provincial festival of new european cinema, where "villa paranoia" picked up three more prizes -- best film, professional jury; best film, audience prize; and best film of another youth jury composed of "lyc'eens", french high school students. five prizes in a single weekend -- not a bad scoop for a film from a small country with unknown actors. in addition, "villa" was awarded the grand prix, the maverick spirit award, at san jose, california, just a week ago, by distinguished british actor sir ben kingsley ("ghandi"), making for a grand total of six prizes in a single week. if lars van trier has put denmark on the offbeat-oddball dogma cinematic map in recent years, there is now a good chance that veteran maverick erik clausen (62) and his capable crew of actors will soon show the world that denmark has more to offer than dogmatic drivel, which is to say, a mass audience pleaser for young and old alike. moreover, the female lead of his film, sonja richter, has such a magical screen presence that, with a little more exposure, she stands a good chance of becoming the next international scandinavian diva. for the record, "villa paranoia" is a fiction film, written, directed and acted in by mr. clausen, and employing certain motifs from moliere's "the imaginary invalid". anna (richter), an ambitious young actress, has lost a deeply coveted role in the moliere play and, reduced to making an utterly stupid tv chicken commercial, is on the verge of suicide. however, jorgen (clausen) who runs a massive chicken farm sponsoring the spot, offers her a job with room and board taking care of his cantankerous, senile, wheel-chair ridden father, walentin, who has not spoken a word since his wife stella committed suicide years before. anna is the only one who eventually finds a way of communicating with the hostile silent old grouch -- and moreover, discovers that he has been faking deafness and immobility all these years -- a living "malade imaginaire". this will lead to her playing the greatest role of her own life in order to uncover the dark secret which led to walentin's total withdrawal from life and reality. villa "paradise-paranoia", true to the moliere tradition from which it is partially derived, is a heartwarming, multi-layered, serial-comic psycho-drama that literally has something for everybody and only needs proper placement to attain the kind of general international outreach it richly deserves. alex deleon, paris / 21 march, 2005