this film was not only one of john ford's own personal favorites but also numbered directors sergei m. eisenstein and bertrand tavernier among its high-profile admirers. ironically, i've just caught up with it myself via criterion's recent 2-disc set after missing out on a couple of original language screenings of it on italian tv many years ago and again a few times on tv while in hollywood! <br /><br />the film marked ford's first of nine collaborations with henry fonda and is also a quintessential example of ford's folksy americana vein. a beautifully made and pictorially quite poetic piece of work, the courtroom sequences (and eventual revelation) in its second half still pack quite a wallop, apart from giving stalwart character actor donald meek a memorably meaty role as the prosecuting attorney.<br /><br />fonda is, of course, perfectly cast as a bashful, inexperienced but rigorous and humanistic lawyer who was destined to become president; fonda would go on to portray other fictitious politicians on film - most notably in franklin j. schaffner's the best man (1964) and sidney lumet's fail-safe (1964) - and it's surprising now to learn that he was reluctant at the time about accepting the role of lincoln since, in his view, that was "like playing god"! <br /><br />it is interesting to note here that ford had previously tackled abraham lincoln (tangentially) in the prisoner of shark island (1936), a superb but perhaps little-known gem which has, luckily, just been released as a special edition dvd by the uk's veritable criterion stand-in, eureka's "masters of cinema" label. besides, i also have two more abraham lincoln films in my dvd collection which i've yet to watch and, incidentally, both were directed by d. w. griffith - the birth of a nation (1915) and abraham lincoln (1930) - and, had i not just received a bunch of films i've never watched before just now, i would have gladly given them a spin based on my highly-satisfying viewing experience with young mr. lincoln.