with the death of her infirmed husband, may, an older woman faces a future in an urban world that views her as invisible, dead from the neck down, and unwelcome in the pseudo- sophisticated yuppie homes of her son, bobby and his shallow wife, helen, and paula, a self- absorbed, clinging, and minimally talented daughter. the central family is anything but warm, supportive, and understanding of her new and tragic stage in life with the death of her husband. the mother is a quiet character study that points up how in some societies, the elder parent is both unwelcome and a burden to grown children whose careers and status seeking overshadow all else. <br /><br />as may comes to realize the world is still important to her, the lonely widow finds her libido reawakened and alive with her daughter's boyfriend, a carpenter and rough sort. may embarks on an uninhibited sexual affair with darren whose character is sympathetic to her at first, but his flawed nature is quickly revealed through the pressures of the women who surround him.<br /><br />this is the kind of role hollywood actresses of a certain age whine is never written for them, but would never appear in because the film's frankness, overt sexuality, unglamorous wardrobe, little makeup, and social commentary on the vapidness of the very society most film industry women are enchrenched. the performance by the lead actress, anne reid ranges from quiet to giddy and her interpretation blossoms on screen from the drab widow to a sexually alive and freed middle age woman without face-lift, hair extensions, and liposuction. she bares more than her soul for the screen.<br /><br />daniel craig is the enabling handyman, derrek who beds both mother and daughter. he turns in another stellar performance that is at first sympathetic to the widow's situation, but in the end is without redemption as his true nature unfold and he is literally the rooster in a hen-house. his aimless character's inability to say no to the ex-wife, boring girlfriend, and her mother is blamed as the root of his ineffectual existence. while good with his hands at building a conservatory, he is unable to construct meaning in his life.<br /><br />one of the best films from britain in years, it is simply adult in its storyline. the mother is the rare kind of film that is perhaps too honest for american audiences to tolerate having no car chase, no bling, no rap soundtrack to drown out the cretin performances by tv starlets and buff studmuffins. the mother reflects how the aging baby boomers are now disposable people that offspring are willing to overlook, send to the retirement home, and get out of the way. may doesn't know what to do as she is made alive by darren, isn't willing to go to the old folks home, and finds her kids are more conservative than she ever was at their age.