retitled from its original japanese name of laputa (for being an offensive phrase, something which director hayao miyazaki was oblivious to at the time), castle in the sky is the master animator's third film, and it's one of his most beloved of all time. initially a box office disappointment in its 1986 release, it has since been embraced by critics and audiences around the world. inspired by jonathan swift's "gulliver's travels", castle in the sky is a steampunk-themed action adventure tale about two young orphans -- young miner pazu, and mysterious girl sheeta (who wears a magic crystal around her neck) -- who team up to find the long-lost island of laputa, which is rumored to have great riches and gems. they are aided by a band of bumbling yet sympathetic air pirates led by the feisty dola (who at first chase them, yet turn out to be true allies) and pursued by the government headed by its villainous topmost-secret agent, muska, who wants the power of laputa for his own benefit.<br /><br />for anyone looking for an exciting way to spend two hours, this film is an excellent choice, featuring just the right amount of humor, exploration, wonder, and mystery to keep one interested. the artwork, although not as spectacular as in some of miyazaki's later movies, is fantastic and gorgeous enough to watch with imaginative characters and locations, incredibly exciting action scenes, and breathtaking flight sequences that will make one feel giddy. and while the characters that populate this tale are less complex than miyazaki's other works, each has a memorable, endearing personality that stays with the viewer long after the film is over. dola, in particular, makes for a terrific comic character, shouting orders to her dimwitted sons one moment and being protective of sheeta the next. muska is one of the few miyazaki creations to ever come across as an irredeemable villain, but like dola, he commands every scene he's in with a sinister charisma that is both alluring and chilly.<br /><br />anime fans have often compared this movie to gainax's sci-fi adventure series nadia: the secret of blue water. after all, both works share similar story and character elements... not to mention that they were both created by miyazaki himself. where both differ is in their execution. nadia, although charming for the most part, suffered from taking a wrong turn at its midway point, devolving into cartoonish nonsense which all but distracted from the main plot, even though it did have a strong ending. castle in the sky, on the other hand, remains consistently entertaining and focused for its two hour running time, and is all the better for it. while the film's epic tone is sometimes broken up by some "cartoonish" moments, like a brawl between pazu's boss and one of dola's sons, it's never to the point that it detracts from the film.<br /><br />about eleven years ago, disney released an english version featuring a cast of big-names such as james van der beek, anna paquin, cloris leachman, mark hamill, mandy patinkin as well as some cameo appearances by veterans such as tress macneille and jim cummings. it also features an ambitious reworking of joe hisaishi's gorgeous musical score for a performance by the seattle music orchestra (interestingly, the man behind this rescore is none other than the composer himself). as much as purists have cried blasphemy over this version for its occasional extra dialogue and the aforementioned rescore, miyazaki had no such problems; in fact, he is said to have applauded the reworking, and for good reason, because the newly rerecorded music is truly the star of the new dub. while there are some instances where filling in some critially silent scenes from the original japanese is a bit jarring (notably the journey through a dragon-infested storm cloud), the overall reworking is fantastic and in many ways improves on the original, particularly in scenes such as when a robot attacks a fortress and the climactic moments toward the end. here, hisaishi displays his musical versatility and genius for matching music to visuals. <br /><br />as far as the performances in the dub go, the leads are probably at the short end of the stick; james van der beek's pazu sounds significantly more mature than his character, while anna paquin's sheeta speaks with an odd accent that fluctuates at times (a problem which actually works in favor of the character). that said, both do good jobs overall and provide a fairly believable chemistry throughout. it's the lively supporting cast, however, that really make this dub so much fun, particularly cloris leachman's dola and mark hamill's muska. both are perfectly cast and steal every scene they're in; as with the rescore, these two really warrant a listen to the disney dub. the script adaptation borders on the loose side at times--there's quite a bit of extra lines and/or commentary (some of which are pricelessly funny and others somewhat overdone)--but aside from at least one debatable alteration (sheeta's speech in the climactic showdown "the world cannot live without love" as opposed to the original "you can't survive apart from mother earth"), the overall characters, story, and spirit remain fairly faithful to the original. on the whole, there is little point comparing the disney version to the original language track; each puts their own stamp on this legendary masterpiece, and i like them both. (they're also better than streamline/jal's more literal but frightfully robotic, lifeless, abysmally acted and poorly written older dub from the late 1980's; don't believe anybody who says this version is "superior" to disneys--trust me, the opposite is true.) <br /><br />either way, though, you can't go wrong with castle in the sky. it's one of miyazaki's all-time greatest, and i highly recommend it.