hayao miyazaki's second feature film, and his first one to be widely acclaimed both commercially and critically (though his debut - nausicaa aka warriors of the wind is considered by many fans his best), 'tenku no shiro rapyuta' aka 'castle in the sky' may seem childish and simplistic when compared to his more recent masterpieces like 'kiki's delivery service', 'mononoke-hime' and 'spirited away', but in 1986 it was years ahead of its time and it was one of the milestones of modern anime. it's important to remember that 'castle in the sky' was made two years before the revolutionary 'akira', and while it's not provocative and controversial like the aforementioned masterpiece, the lead characters are all mainly basic manga hero / heroine / villain type characters, and the story is quite predictable and obvious (at least in today's standards), miyazaki's designs and animation work are of standards never seen before. while the story and humor are a bit silly and outdated at times, the movie is still very entertaining and very enjoyable - if not as breathtaking as 'spirited away'. and if you'll allow yourself to see the beauty of the frames themselves and ignore the low-budget coloring and animation and the identical twin faces - at this point miyazaki is still faithful to his roots and to the agreed standards of japanese cartooning - you'll see miyazaki's genius shine through as well as it does on 'spirited away' and mononoke. while 'castle in the sky', being a sci-fi adventure and very suitable for children, fits in more neatly with classic anime than anything else he had done since, his motifs and principles still show and play an important part. to say much more would be to ruin the movie, so i'll kindly shut up. suffice to say that i'm giving it only nine stars because if i gave it ten i couldn't go any higher for 'spirited away' and 'princess mononoke'. and that would be a crime.<br /><br />as in most anime movies, i recommend watching the japanese version with the english subtitles, even if you don't speak a word of japanese - the english overdubs just don't tend to be very good, and in this case it's just horrendous. you might want to watch it in the english version once, though, just for the laughs, and for the star-filled cast (the english dub was only recorded following the success of 'spirited away', as it was for 'kiki's delivery service') - anna paquin and james van der beek (yeah, the dawson guy!) fill the lead roles, mark hamill (luke skywalker from 'star wars', in case you don't know!) plays the villain, and other roles are filled by andy dick, tres macneille (the simpsons, rugrats, animaniacs...), michael mcshane (friar tuck from kevin costner's robin hood travesty) and mandy patinkin (hello, my name is inigo montoya...) good for a laugh, or a few laughs really. but watch the japanese one first.