it's always difficult to put a stamp on any film as being 'the best,' whether of all time, a certain genre, or what have you, but i believe a strong argument could be made that in fact, laputa is the greatest animated film ever made. it is in my mind the masterwork of hayao miyazaki, the most talented of japan's animated directors, and it best captures his strengths as a director, storyteller, and designer, as well as encapsulating all of his favorite underlying themes. the version i'm reviewing is the 2003 american dub (i know, sacrilege for a hard-core anime fan to not watch it in its native language); there is at least one other english language dub out there, i have it on vhs (i have no idea from what source), and that version is the single best dub i have ever encountered of any film. but i thought it better to concentrate on the version people can actually find.<br /><br />laputa tells the story of a boy named pazu (voiced by james van der beek here), who's growing up in a mining town when one day a young girl named sheeta (anna paquin) literally drops from the sky. it seems she is being pursued by a sinister government agent, colonel muska (mark hamill), who is more interested in the magical crystal that hangs around her neck. to keep things lively, there's also a wickedly funny pirate gang after the crystal, led by the aging but still boisterous dola (cloris leachman). the plot revolves around the crystal's ability to reveal the location of the fabled flying city of laputa, a potential treasure trove of scientific knowledge and hidden treasure. it's all very much in keeping with a fairy-tale setting, but miyazaki knows exactly how far to take the story, and the plot is peppered with 'gosh-wow' moments and threaded with his customary morality and warnings about abusing the power of nature.<br /><br />the design work on laputa, nearly twenty years later, is still revolutionary. flying machines of all sorts abound, utterly impossible but so meticulously designed that you instantly accept them without blinking. the world is set somewhere around the start of the twentieth century, with telegraphs and ancient motorcars alongside those wonderful impossible flying machines. but it is the city itself that is sheer brilliance in execution; laputa is both the garden of eden and the fire of heaven itself, and in that juxtaposition lies its appeal, its power, and its danger.<br /><br />besides being a thoughtfully designed and beautifully rendered film, laputa is blessed with a wonderful sense of cinematography. from sweeping flying shots to high speed chases on tiny one-man flyers to ships submerging into the clouds as if they were water, laputa displays a scope that most films 