regardless of what personal opinion one may have of walerian borowczyk grotesque yet beautiful gem "la b^ete" of 1975, one has to admit that this bizarre gem is an absolutely unique cinematic experience. borowczyk erotic fairy tale was banned in several countries for a long time, and it is quite obvious why this controversial gem fell victim to stuporous film censors. "la b^ete" is a fascinating blend of intense and beautiful fairy-tale-like atmosphere, quite explicit eroticism and genuine weirdness that bravely refuses to take any compromise. the fact that beastiality (of sorts) is one of the film's central themes did certainly not help it with the censors, but it made it highly controversial and therefore known to a wider audience.<br /><br />pierre de l'esperance (guy tr'ejan), the head of a french aristocratic family, has arranged for his somewhat demented son mathurin (pierre benedetti) to marry lucy broadhurst (lisbeth hummel), the young and beautiful daughter of a wealthy english family. due to an old curse, mathurin's uncle (marcel dali'o) is strictly against the wedding. when lucy and her mother arrive at the french estate, lucy immediately gets fascinated with a portrait of the 18th century ancestor romilda (sirpa lane), and with an old book depicting bizarre drawings. the story soon descends into a bizarre sexual fever-dream... without giving away too much, i can say that fans of exceptional cinema should not consider missing this film. as bizarre as it is, "la b^ete" is doubtlessly also stunningly beautiful in style, settings and cinematography. the fever-dream-like atmosphere is present within- and out of dream-sequences. the forest estate and the imposing family mansion are magnificent settings, and the beautiful score and incredible cinematography build an overwhelming atmosphere for this grotesque tale. the very explicit sexuality ranges from erotic (elegant female nudity, ravishing actresses) to seriously demented and even somewhat disgusting (close-ups on horses' genitalia while having intercourse,...); in either case it is not likely to be forgotten. the entire cast of "la b^ete" is fantastic and all involved deliver great performances in eccentric characters (some of which are seriously demented). the film profits from an exceptionally beautiful cast, be it lisbeth hummel in the lead, finnish actress sirpa lane (who sadly died of aids in 1999) as the ancestor in the dream-sequences, or the relatively unknown but particularly ravishing actress pascale rivault, who plays the aristocratic daughter who takes ever opportunity to have sex with a black servant in a cupboard.<br /><br />i am intentionally not giving a full description of the most important parts of the plot as they simply have to be seen to be believed. some scenes are among the most bizarre ever caught on film, the scenes with the eponymous 'beast' definitely being among them. certainly not everybody's cup of tea, but very highly recommended to fans of controversial and unusual cinema. a true cult gem!