most people, when they think of expressionist cinema, look to the b&w german films of the silent and early sound eras--films that emphasized canted angles, extreme contrasts of light and dark, exaggerated performance, and occasional uses of surrealism to create a dreamlike atmosphere in order to diverge from traditional, naturalistic modes of cinematic representation. if we're willing to accept that the germans were not the only filmmakers to create expressionist cinema (and that those above-mentioned characteristics are not prerequisites for expressionist film), then i would argue that dodes'ka-den (dkd) is a prime example of this type of film. <br /><br />like dreams, dkd is a little unhinged for a kurosawa film, dabbling, as it does, in the unreal. however, dkd is also, unlike dreams, a great film and probably my favorite kurosawa picture. why? mostly, i think, it's the colors. this was, i believe, kurosawa's first color film, and the man saturates the movie with vibrant primary colors, creating a completely unreal contemporary japan. we are used to the neon lights and gleaming tokyo skyscrapers; we are not used to a city that appears to have been colored with crayons. <br /><br />dkd is, as i said, a peculiar film inasmuch as many of its characters live in a junkyard, appearing to live in an alternate universe. that is, i think, the point--these are the tokyo outsiders, the people left behind during the great move forward following world war ii. the film also represents one of kurosawa's more heartfelt movies; there is genuine sentiment here and genuine pathos (such as when the boy's father describes their dream home). it's an amazingly moving film from a man better known for stunning, john ford-like vistas and samurais. everyone should have known kurosawa had in him a movie as touching and thought provoking as this (ikiru foreshadows the emotional resonance of this film in many ways). <br /><br />i will also argue, to the last, that this is kurosawa's greatest achievement. his samurai films, though capable pictures, pale in comparison to works by kobayashi (hara-kiri is the greatest, most intelligent samurai film committed to celluloid). rashomon, hidden fortress, seven samurai, yojimbo, sanjuro, kagemusha, and ran are all fine films, but they're merely good (and, frankly, i think that word is too generous for hidden fortress and kagemusha). dkd is a great movie, as is ikiru. they are the crown jewels that show akira was not a one-trick samurai pony. they reveal his artistry and mastery of cinema.