this 1953 sam fuller movie contains some of his best work, and its sad that he couldn't continue to get the backing of major hollywood studios to do his stuff. the story line goes something like this. a tough hard broad (read prostitute) is riding the subway one hot summer day, and gets her pocketbook picked by skip mccoy. what skip (and the dame) don't realize is that she is also carrying some microfilm to be passed to commie spies. this opening shot without dialogue, and mostly in tight close-ups is a beaut,one of the many that fuller uses throughout the movie. playing the babe known as candy is jean peters, who was never better nor better looking. one forgets how beautiful she was, and she handles this role very well. the pickpocket is played by richard widmark, who had already made his mark, and set his style with 1947's kiss of death as the crazy creep with the creepy laugh, and although he's a little "softer" here, he's still scary. these hard edged characters do have soft spots here and there, but its noir and nasty all the way. the standout performance belongs to the wonderful thelma ritter,who plays moe the stoolie saving up her dough to pay for her own funeral. ritter received a well deserved oscar nomination for her performance, but lost out to the boring but popular performance of donna reed as the b girl (read prostitute) in "from here to eternity." hollywood loves it when a good girl goes bad, and loves to oscar them even though their performance is usually awful. see for instance shirley jones in "elmer gantry. set among the docks and dives of new york city, with crisp black and white photography by the great joe macdonald,and some very good art direction. especially good is the set representing the new york city subways and widmark's shack near the river. made at the height of the cold war and red scare, the villian of the piece is the ordinary looking commie, played by richard kiley who is much more dangerous than the pickpocket who is a criminal but is just trying to make a living and above all is a loyal american.