"pickup on south street" is a high speed drama about a small time criminal who suddenly finds himself embroiled in the activities of a group of communists. the action is presented in a very direct and dynamic style and the momentum is kept up by means of some brilliant editing. the use of a wide variety of different camera angles and effective close-ups also contribute to the overall impression of constant motion and vitality. samuel fuller's style of directing and the cinematography by joseph macdonald are excellent and there are many scenes which through their composition and lighting produce a strong sense of mood and atmosphere.<br /><br />ace pickpocket and repeat offender skip mccoy (richard widmark) gets into deep water when he steals a wallet from a young woman named candy (jean peters) on the new york subway. she was being used by her ex-boyfriend joey (richard kiley) to make a delivery to one of his contacts in a communist organisation and unknown to her, she was carrying us government secrets recorded on microfilm. two fbi agents had been following candy and witnessed the theft. one of the agents continues to tail her back to joey's apartment and the other, zara (willis bouchey), visits police captain dan tiger (murvyn vye). zara explains that the fbi has been following candy for some months as part of their pursuit of the ringleader of a communist group.<br /><br />in order to identify the pickpocket, tiger calls in a "stoolie" called moe (thelma ritter) who after being given a precise description of the "cannon's" method of working makes a list of eight possible suspects. once tiger sees skip's name on the list he's immediately convinced that he's the man that they need to track down and he sends two detectives to arrest him. when skip is brought into tiger's office, zara tells him about the microfilm and tiger offers to drop any charges if he'll co-operate with the investigation. skip is flippant and arrogant. he clearly doesn't trust tiger and denies all knowledge of the theft on the subway.<br /><br />joey orders candy to find out who stole the microfilm and then retrieve it. candy pays moe for skip's address and when skip returns from being questioned by tiger, he finds candy searching his home and knocks her unconscious before stealing her money. when she recovers, skip demands payment of $25,000 for the microfilm. she tells joey about skip's demand and joey's boss gives him a gun and orders him to recover the microfilm by the following evening.<br /><br />skip and candy are attracted to each other and it's because of their uneasy, developing relationship that a means evolves by which they are able to shake off the attentions of the police. it soon becomes apparent, however, that resolving matters with the communist gang will only be achieved by more direct action.<br /><br />the depictions of skip, candy and moe as characters that inhabit a seedy world in which they are forced to face considerable risks on a daily basis are powerful and compelling.<br /><br />moe's work as a police informer is dependent on her knowledge of the people in her community but also those people know what she does and any one of them could seek their revenge at any time. she appears to be cunning and streetwise but also has her vulnerable side as she describes herself as "an old clock running down" and saves money to be able to have a decent burial in an exclusive cemetery in long island. her belief that "every buck has a meaning of its own" leads her to sell any information regardless of danger, friendships or principles and yet there is one occasion where she refuses and this proves fatal. thelma ritter's performance certainly merited the oscar nomination she earned for her role.<br /><br />skip is a violent criminal with no concern for his victims and having already been convicted three times in the past, lives under the constant threat of being jailed for life if convicted again. despite this, he still continues with his criminal activities and strangely, is merely philosophical when moe betrays his whereabouts and then later, he even ensures that moe receives the type of burial she valued so highly. candy is an ex-hooker and someone whose activities constantly put her in peril but behind her hardened exterior a warmer side gradually becomes more evident. widmark and peters are both perfect for their roles and like ritter portray the different facets of their personalities with great style and conviction.