before there was crash, there was this interesting film called grand canyon. released about 14 years sooner than the former film, grand canyon was a movie about two people from different backgrounds who come together as friends over a lifetime. to me crash was still a slightly better film, but grand canyon was no slouch either.<br /><br />taking place in los angeles, an upper-class lawyer named mack (kevin kline) takes a shortcut through the seedier side of town only to have his car break down at the worst time. he calls for a tow truck, and has to wait for awhile, only to soon be threatened by a group of dangerous people who want his car. soon the tow truck driver arrives at the perfect moment, and out steps simon (danny glover) to take the truck away. both men are threatened, but simon manages to get himself, mack, and the car out of dire straits. it is from here on out that a friendship develops between the two men over a lifetime with mack helping out simon just as simon had helped him out of a dangerous situation earlier. you see simon's sister deborah (tina lifford) is living in a dangerous neighborhood with her two children, and fears for her oldest son who seems to be roaming the streets at night with some bad people. mack offers them a better place to live as well as hooking simon up with his secretary's friend jane (alfre woodard).<br /><br />this is the main plot of the film, but there are other smaller plots involving the same secretary mentioned above (mary louise parker) as well as mack's wife, (mary mcdonnel) who discovers an abandoned baby not long after their son roberto (jeremy sisto in his first movie role) has gone to camp for the summer, and will likely be moving on with his own life soon. the details of all these plots are brought together into one complex movie which uses a police helicopter as a metaphor for life and as a bridge to entwine all the different scenes. this simple plot device works very well and helps greatly with the flow of the story.<br /><br />the director lawrence kasdan, whose biggest movie to this date was the big chill, has created a splendid movie here. the cast is excellent, and most of the ideas are well thought out, but alas it falls short of greatness because some points, that would've made the film even stronger, are glossed over. the story involving the secretary is one, and the second involving simon's nephew is the other. these scenes should've been more apart of the entire story, and then maybe lawrence kasdan's views of life between the upper and lower classes would've been more on a superior level instead of just very good. still grand canyon exceeded expectations, and yes you will get to see a view of the canyon that this movie was named after. there is also a small role for steve martin as davis, a producer of violent films, who offers his own views on life, and has a small part to play in this movie's ideas.