if you really want to know how most of the actors and directors in the hollywood scene "made it" to where they are, the vast majority will tell you (assuming they will tell) that a strange coincidence took place. they happened to meet the right people at the right time and get into the right project which led to other connections and other projects. quinten tarrantino took an acting class whose instructor knew harvey keitel. kevin spacey lifted a back stage pass from a sleeping old woman at the lecture of a famous playwright who helped him land an important role. and robin williams credits his career to gary marshall's son who, after having seen "star wars", suggested to his father that an alien should visit the cunninghams of "happy days". these coincidences, many times viewed as pure luck, shapes many of the careers in hollywood today. or is it pure luck? is possible something else is going on? "grand canyon" written and directed by lawrence kasdan, proposes an altogether different explanation for the inexplicable, aka the strange miraculous coincidence. the movie concerns several different characters whose lives intersect because of positive and yet inexplicable happenstance.<br /><br />kevin kline, a middle-aged father, experiences a break-down in one of the more dangerous areas of la. after he phones a tow truck, a young gang accosts him. they threaten violence if he doesn't leave his car. just before the confrontation can escalate, danny glover appears as the tow truck driver and dampens the intentions of the gang. although glover denies it later, he probably saved kline's life. a producer (steve martin) of cheap violent films gets shot in the leg and after wards has a spiritual experience. he then announces retirement from producing blood and gore entertainment. and kline's wife, clair (mary mcdonnell), while on a morning jog, finds a baby hidden in some foliage. she claims the baby cried for her and that her "rescue" of the infant was preordained.<br /><br />the movie explores further the results of these strange connections that lead to further relationships, end to relationships, and new beginnings. and all the while, a strange homeless man appears throughout the movie as if somehow he is also connected to everything that is going on.<br /><br />it is very rare in hollywood, or for film in general, to explore such a purely esoteric subject. there are a few moments that seem somewhat unbelievable, but maybe that's the point. what makes the film work is the superb acting by the cast. although the miracles and coincidences may seem far-fetched, the actors make you believe they are experiencing these new realities. maybe this is a subject we should explore more often.