i revisited grand canyon earlier this year when i set out to devise a ten best list of the 1990's. i first saw the film when i was 17 years old. how did i hear about it? it was reviewed, and recommended highly, by siskel & ebert in 1991, and i eventually caught it on video a year later.<br /><br />it's a great film, a powerful film, a healing film, about the power of listening, truly listening to one another. i've seen it six times now, and it entertains and inspires me with every subsequent viewing. but why the poor reviews for this movie? maltin's movie guide gives it two out of four. too melodramatic, too much coincidence, too sappy, are the expressions that i read the most. yes, there is melodrama in this story, and yes, there is a lot of coincidence, too. but it delivers with an intensity and force that seems supple. for all of the "plot" that exists in grand canyon, such as drive-by shootings, a police chase, an earthquake, a love affair, a woman's discovery of a baby in the bushes, another shooting, a near accident by a new driver, and worldly advice from a homeless man, this movie wins because of the smart performances by kevin kline, steve martin, mary mcdonnell, alfre woodard, danny glover, and jeremy sisto. it also succeeds because of lawrence kasdan's skillful direction and writing. you know that this isn't just another movie when you consider a sequence at the beginning of the film that involves kevin kline being harassed by four black youths. danny glover plays a tow truck driver who assists the kline character, but not before he gets harassed too, by the leader of the bunch. listen to the dialogue as the kid suggests to glover,"are you afraid of me because of me, or because i have a gun?".<br /><br />grand canyon is filled with one perceptive scene after another. steve martin should have been nominated for best supporting actor as a movie producer who has a change of heart and then a subsequent change of mind. i think his character is a warning that "the good" can carry us forward, that idealism is a virtue, but one that we must fight for constantly rather than depend upon.<br /><br />i fear that grand canyon may be lost forever in the wilderness of non-new releases at the video store. but with the deals now on older releases as low as 99 cents, i plead with anyone who has read this far into a review from a reviewer that you will thank after having rented it, grand canyon is something special. if you loved magnolia, another movie with a big ensemble about deep humanist themes, you'll love grand canyon, too.