the year 1995, when so many people talked about the great premiere of braveheart by mel gibson, also saw another very fine, yet underrated movie on scottish history, rob roy. although it is a very different film, especially due to the historical period the story is set in, rob roy has much in common not only with marvelous braveheart but also with the very spirit of epic movies.<br /><br />it is a film that discusses similar themes, like fight for dignity, courage, honor, revenge, family being a key to happiness. it also leads us to the very bliss of scottish highlands where the human soul finds its rest being surrounded by all grandeur of nature. robert roy macgregor (liam neeson), the main character is a true hero (so universal in epics), sort of "scottish robin hood" who struggles to lead his people out of oppression imposed by cold hearted lords. although he worsens his situation through the acts, has to suffer a lot, two things stay in his mind undeniably: honor that he is given by himself and love to his woman, mary macgregor (jessica lange). that leads him to unexpected events...<br /><br />except for the interesting content and quite vivid action, the movie is filled with truly stunning visuals. this factor has to do both with the sets and locations of the film as well as the wardrobe. many memorable moments stay in the mind of any viewer who can allow themselves an insight into artistic images. for me, the most splendid scene was in the highlands when rob roy tells his boys what honor really means. then, he sends them away and beautifully makes love to his woman. the scene he escapes marguis of montrose (john hurt) to the waterfall is also worth a look as a stunning visual. <br /><br />of course, there is some graphic violence, like in the duel for instance, but i don't think that this violence would be as harmful as in many other modern films. its justification is like any other epic's: bloodshed and cruelty of those times were really serious and there would be no point in hiding it. the most disturbing scene, for me, was the rape done on rob roy's wife by the villain of the story: archibald cunningham (tim roth). it's truly disgusting and kids should definitely stay away. however, all the rest is o.k. yet, there is one aspect that made me really love this movie, the performances.<br /><br />all the cast do perfect jobs, from the leading lian neeson who fits very well to the role of tall, brave, strong scottish man to the supporting cast of brian cox who portrays wicked killearn, a silent witness of terrible acts who feels comfortable with the evil of war. jessica lange is very fine as mary macgregor and has some of the most beautiful moments in the film. there is chemistry between ms lange and mr neeson in many of their scenes. john hurt, one of the best british actors, does a terrific job as marguis of montrose, a corrupted man for whom money is the aim in itself achieved by any means. i like that calmness of his portrayal. but the real villain is played by tim roth who truly depicts wretched side of his character, archibald - a man who mocks love, who loves war and who finds true lust in rape and slaughter. but, like in any good epic, this exceptional evil must find its end...<br /><br />and one more aspect: the musical score: such memorable and sentimental tunes that are bound to sound in the ears for long. the final moment touched me to tears not only because of the beauty it conveys but because i deeply combined these blissful tunes with the grandeur of locations. scotland remains in the heart of its visitor and this movie reminded me of that permanent effect. it was, as if, my second journey to scotland.<br /><br />rob roy is a very nice movie, very well directed, photographed and acted. it perhaps does not equal braveheart with its spectacular sets and crowds of extras in battle scenes, but it is a fairly long film with much attention placed on one very significant feature a cinema should have: stunning entertainment combined with heartfelt education. i really enjoyed that film, do not hesitate to call it metaphorically "highlands of entertainment" and rate it 9/10