to bad for this fine film that it had to be released the same year as braveheart. though it is a very different kind of film, the conflict between scottish commoners and english nobility is front and center here as well. roughly 400 years had passed between the time braveheart took place and rob roy was set, but some things never seemed to change. scottland is still run by english nobles, and the highlanders never can seem to catch a break when dealing with them. rob roy is handsomely done, but not the grand epic that braveheart was. there are no large-scale battles, and the conflict here is more between individuals. and helpfully so not all englishmen are portrayed as evil this time. rob roy is simply a film about those with honor, and those who are truly evil.<br /><br />liam neeson plays the title character rob roy macgregor. he is the leader of the macgregor clan and his basic function is to tend to and protect the cattle of the local nobleman of record known as the marquis of montrose (john hurt). things look pretty rough for the macgregor clan as winter is approaching, and there seems to be a lack of food for everyone. rob roy puts together a plan to borrow 1000 pounds from the marquis and purchase some cattle of his own. he would then sell them off for a higher price and use the money to improve the general well-being of his community. sounds fair enough, doesn't it? problems arise when two cronies of the marquis steal the money for themselves. one of them, known as archibald cunningham, is perhaps the most evil character ever put on film. played wonderfully by tim roth, this man is a penniless would-be noble who has been sent to live with the marquis by his mother. this man is disgustingly effeminate, rude, heartless, and very dangerous with a sword. he fathers a child with a hand maiden and refuses to own up to the responsibility. he rapes macgregor's wife and burns him out of his home. this guy is truly as rotten as movie characters come. along with another crony of the marquis (brian cox) cunningham steals the money and uses it to settle his own debts. though it is painfully obvious to most people what happened, the marquis still holds macgregor to the debt. this sets up conflict that will take many lives and challenge the strengths of a man simply fighting to hold on to his dignity.<br /><br />spoilers ahead!!!!!<br /><br />luckily for the macgregor's, a duke who is no friend to the marquis sets up a final duel between rob roy and cunningham to resolve the conflict one and for all. this sword fight has been considered by many to be one of the best ever filmed. cunningham is thought by many to be a sure winner with his speed and grace. and for most of the fight, it looks like these attributes will win out. just when it looks like rob roy is finished, he turns the tables in a shockingly grotesque manner. the first time you see what happens, you will probably be as shocked as cunningham! rob roy is beautifully filmed, wonderfully acted, and perfectly paced. the score is quite memorable, too. the casting choices seem to have worked out as jessica lange, who might seem to be out of her element, actually turns in one of the strongest performances as mary macgregor. the film is violent, but there isn't too much gore. it is a lusty picture full of deviant behavior, however. the nobility are largely played as being amoral and sleazy. the film has no obvious flaws, thus it gets 10 of 10 stars.<br /><br />the hound.