this is the moving tale of scotland's legendary hero, rob roy, and his battles with the feudal landowners. like braveheart to which it is frequently compared, it is not very historical. despite their primarily fictional nature, i rate both of these movies highly and would be hard pressed to choose between the two. the 13 century william wallace is, as others have noted, a larger than life national figure, while the early 18th century rob roy comes across as an honourable but ordinary scotsman.<br /><br />the story revolves around a clan chieftain, robert roy mcgregor, who lives in a scottish highland cottage with his wife mary and their two young sons. as the movie begins, he and his fellow clansmen are hunting down some thieves who have stolen the local lord's cattle. rob roy then wishes to improve the living conditions of his people so arranges to borrow one thousand scottish pounds from a local noble, the marquis of montrose, in order to buy cattle to herd to market. he temporarily entrusts this money to his friend, alan mcdonald. when both mcdonald and the money turn up missing, rob roy finds himself in conflict with montrose as well as his despicable prot'eg'e, archibald cunningham, and his sleazy factor, killearn. rob roy's honour is also tested when montrose seeks to involve him in false testimony against his rival, the duke of argyle, whom he wishes to accuse of being a jacobite.<br /><br />the charismatic liam leeson is brilliant as the kilted highlander rob roy, an intelligent, virile, and noble hero and a man whose sense of honour is pivotal to this tale. personally, i feel that this is neeson's best performance, his brogue (albeit irish) adding authenticity for the average viewer. rob roy is a stubborn, proud, courageous, and honest man whose word can be trusted. he is a loving husband & father, and also touchingly loyal to his friend, mcdonald, who is accused of robbing him. <br /><br />tim roth masterfully portrays his major adversary and surely one of the most heinous and sadistic cinematic villains, archibald cunningham, an egotistical, ruthless strutting peacock. he is very effeminate for someone who makes it his major business to ravish the local women, whether willing or otherwise. the pathetic cunningham himself constantly refers to the fact that he is a bastard unaware of his own father's identity, though this hardly justifies his horrendous misdeeds of murder, rape, and thievery. also, he mercilessly casts aside the young servant girl, betty, after she becomes pregnant with his child, resulting in her suicide. john hurt plays the arrogant and foppish montrose, who is eventually implied to be cunningham's father.<br /><br />the movie is essentially the very believable love story between an ordinary man and his wife, beautifully depicting the passionate relationship between rob roy and mary. those who question the presence of passion within marriage should watch this husband and wife! i think the phrase used by this pair, 'how fine you are to me...' is surely one of the most beautiful expressions of love in all cinema. <br /><br />the most compelling performance is possibly by jessica lange as rob's wife, mary mcgregor. lacking make up, she has the pretty but natural look of a sturdy peasant wife and mother. the actress brings great courage and dignity to her role when she is brutally raped by the despicable cunningham, while the disgusting killearn looks on. her dialogue is plain spoken but filled with pride and grace. i give hollywood its due that for once they showed just enough in the rape scene to reveal its cruelty as well as mary's pain and humiliation, but nothing intended to sensationalize. their kinsman, alastair mcgregor, shows emotional anguish when he learns of mary's rape, and further torment when she swears him to secrecy never to reveal to her husband her violation by cunningham. <br /><br />of course this film features the beautiful scenery of the scottish highlands, also lavish period costumes and appropriate musical scoring. there are no grand battle scenes as in braveheart, but continuous engaging action and a particularly gripping sword fight in the final duel between rob roy and cunningham. this is a captivating movie featuring both tense action and a beautiful love tale.