taiwanese director ang lee, whose previous films include 'sense and sensibility' and 'the ice storm', turned to the american civil war for his latest feature. based on a novel by daniel woodrell, it follows the exploits of a group of southern guerrillas, known as bushwhackers, as they fight their northern equivalents, the jayhawkers in the backwater of missouri.<br /><br />as one might expect, there is plenty of visceral action, but the focus is on the tension that the war put on the young men who fought it - many of whom were fighting against their former neighbours and even family. jake roedel (tobey maguire) is such a man, or rather, boy, as he is only seventeen when the war reaches missouri. he is the son of a german immigrant, but instead of following his countrymen and becoming a unionist, he joins his lifelong friend jack bull chiles (skeet ulrich) and rides with the bushwhackers. despite a lack of acceptance because of his ancestry and an unwillingness to participate in the murder of unarmed union men, he remains loyal to the cause. so does his friend daniel holt (jeffrey wright), a black slave freed by another bushwhacker and so fighting for the south.<br /><br />lee handles the subject with aplomb, never rushing the deep introspection that the plot demands in favour of action and this lends the film a sense of the reality of war - long periods of boredom and waiting interposed with occasional flashes of intensely terrifying fighting. the action is unglamorised and admirably candid, recognising that both sides committed a great number of atrocities.<br /><br />the performances are superb, with maguire and wright both courageous and dignified. up-and-coming irish actor jonathan rhys meyers is particularly chilling as a cold-blooded killer, while skeet ulrich is enjoyably suave and arrogant. lee never flinches from the reality of war, but his actors do an admirable job of showing the good that comes from it - the growth of friendship, the demonstration of courage and, on a wider scale, the emancipation of oppressed peoples. ride with the devil is a beautiful and deeply compassionate film that regularly shocks but always moves the audience.