this is my favorite jackie chan movie and in an interview, jackie said it was his favorite as well. it contains some unbelievable stunts and jaw dropping fight sequences as well as some very funny scenes as well. this movie was a favorite of brandon lee, who used parts in rapid fire, and was also lifted in tango and cash, which used some of the opening scenes.<br /><br />jackie plays a policeman in hong kong. the story immediately jumps into a fantastic chase through a shanty town and continues as jackie slides down a hill and jumps onto a moving bus to catch the evil ku (who is one of the greatest villains in any jackie chan movie.) you can expect some very funny scenes as jackie tries to balance his duty as a policeman with his girl friend, played by maggie chung. his job is to protect ku's secretary who has enough information to take him down, but even that poses many problems. jackie is at his absolute best here. the last fight scene at the mall is my favorite fight scene by anyone - period. it was the most intense fight i have ever seen jackie do and climaxes in a slide down a pole amidst exploding lights. all in all, one of his greatest stunts he ever did and left him with skin pealed off his hands. he was fortunate he was not electrocuted as the person in charge of the stunt used high voltage instead of a lower voltage.<br /><br />all in all, another chan classic and definitely one of his greatest movies. by the end of this movie, you can tell he held absolutely nothing back and neither did his stuntmen. so many of his stuntmen were injured during this movie that nobody would insure them anymore - jackie had to take responsibility himself. there are no gimmicks, wires or stand-ins - it is all true-life action that is a treat to watch. it is this type of action that made him the phenomenon that he is and it is a movie that will amaze people 100 years from now. if you have not seen this movie and are a fan of jackie chan or action in general, give yourself a treat and watch this movie. it is truly sensational.