this film is a complete re-imagining of romeo and juliet in tel aviv and nablus. the lovers are one from tel aviv et the other from nablus. there is a border between them, and a constant state of war with the israeli army ever present everywhere and the palestinian militants everywhere else with their bombs. the situation is bleak enough. we can imagine love in that enormous loveless trap. but the film goes several light years further by imagining the two lovers are gay, noam from tel aviv and ashraf from nablus. to be gay is accepted in tel aviv. it is off limits in nablus. the conflict between the two peoples, the two communities is thus doubled with a conflict between two cultures, two ethics. but this could even be livable if the war did not bring some extra dimension. ashraf's sister is going to get married to a militant activist in nablus. ashraf finally tells his sister about his being gay. she cannot accept it but accepts to speak about it later. from the wedding itself the newly married husband sends a commando into tel aviv to set up a bomb attack. it takes place in a caf'e in tel aviv and one friend of noam's is severely wounded. bad enough. the isareli army sends a commando to nablus to arrest the person responsible for this attack, but it turns sour and the newly married wife is shot dead in the street. the funeral follows the wedding. the husband and widower volunteers for a suicide bomb attack. ashraf volunteers to take his place. the exiled lover comes back to tel aviv to die and kill a few people to avenge his sister. he arrives at a diner managed by some friends of noam's. but noam sees him and gets out to speak to him. ashraf has moved back to the middle of the street and he detonates his bomb when noam reaches him in the street. the vengeance reunites the two lovers in death. we thus have the dual conflict but we do not have the prince of verona, a neutral character that can impose peace, or even worse the prince seems to have chosen sides and to be on the side of israel. the game is entirely false and death is sure on both sides. but the dimension of impossible love is all the stronger because it is redoubled by a play in the film, a play that shows love in auschwitz, between two prisoners, one wearing a yellow star and the other a pink triangle. this is both strikingly strong and breathtakingly shocking: gay love in auschwitz. what comes out of the film is that over there in tel aviv or nablus love is impossible. the film is thus a denunciation of the conflict in palestine that cannot but continue though it has no reason to even exist though it has thousands of reasons to go on. we should never have let great britain deal with the region a long time ago. today we have to find a solution in which no one will be humiliated. this will only be able to succeed if everyone comes together in order to find a lasting solution. but so far everyone is trying to avoid that general confrontation and discussion preferring bilateral manipulations. so suffering will go on and love will be forbidden, of course not sex since children are needed for the war to go on: so let's procreate more and more little soldiers. but love is just an extra-terrestrial concept.<br /><br />dr jacques coulardeau, university paris dauphine & university paris 1 pantheon sorbonne