it's difficult to not have a liking for israeli director eytan fox and for his movies, which describe the life in the middle east and the inherent problems gay people can have in these regions. besides he also gave voice to the young generations, and to the remarkable part of them, who really need peace and who want to take no further notice of a war that for too much time marked the existences of people, both in israel both in palestine. these reasons, in my opinion, are sufficient to consider fox a noteworthy director, even when his feeling for the melodrama is a tad out of control. however the fans of his movies (that he realized on team with gal uchovsky, his producer, co-screenwriter and also life companion) seem to not being vexed by this, since his new feature, the bubble (ha-buah), is having the same success of the previous yossi & jagger and walk on the water. announced as a contemporary gay version of "romeo & juliet", set in the present day tel aviv instead of verona and with two men (one israeli and the other palestinian) at the place of the two shakespearean young lovers, the film actually is quite different from that or, better, it's also something else. in fact the bubble of the title is the world apart in which the leading man, noam, played by the fox regular ohad knoller (yossi in yossi & jagger, but i must confess i miss jagger, the astonishing yehuda levi!) and his two co-tenants, a guy and a girl, chose to live. around thirty-years-old, restless, witty and firm (despite the protagonist just spent a period as national service in a checkpoint on the frontier with the palestine) to live a life that won't be only made of war. the two guys are gay and along with the girl they have established a trio in which they brotherly love and support each other. their lives are destined to change when noam falls in love with ashraf (the tv star yousef 'joe' sweid) a young palestinian who came to live in tel aviv. the laws so far in force among the group are neglected, but not the will to aid one friend. still it won't be easy for noam and his friends, 'cause ashraf is clandestine in israel and in the meantime his family, who lives in palestine and doesn't know he's gay, is looking forward to settle his wedding with a very beautiful girl, who is a relative of ashraf's beloved sister bridegroom-to-be, who he is also a terrorist and he will have a strong liability in the development of the plot, with consequences not just for the two men. because the prejudices against the homosexuality and the peace (interesting dualism, if not automatic) are stubborn and so the tragedy is unavoidable. even if the film focus on the obstacles the relationship between noam and ashraf meets with, it doesn't the overlook the other characters, which turn out well written (for example golan, the boyfriend of yelli, noam's fellow tenant, introduced as a lively boor, and then disclosed as a sweeter and more open minded person) and aptly performed (besides the two leads, we mustn't disregard the funny zohar liba and the lovely daniela virtzer, the girl of the gang; moreover late marriage's star lior ashkenazi appears as himself in a cameo). it also melds the gloomy tones with the more brilliant ones, even if the director can't do without a melodramatic conclusion. i watched this movie more than a month ago and in the meantime i often thought about it, proof that fox and his pal have a knack to strike home.