i was initially forced to attend by my wife as she is fascinated by the royal families of britain and their history, and she won't go to the cinema without me. although viewers shouldn't expect to be electrified, this film is very well made and the visual aspect is second to none. in many ways it helps dispel the myth that victoria was the miserable unsmiling dumpy woman usually seen in photographs. she was a bright intelligent and according to the history of her early years, a fun loving happy young woman. her love of albert was the essence of true love, and even if you only count the number of children she bore (9), they must have had a passionate relationship. all of this is well borne out in the film. to this end, the cast has been well selected with both emily blunt and rupert friend giving sound performances as victoria and albert.<br /><br />(spoiler alert) the historical accuracy is somewhat questionable as at no time did prince albert get shot while defending victoria. there was at least one assassination attempt when they were out together, but nobody was struck by the shot/s. i also found it odd that little was done to expand on the allegedly intimate relationship between victoria's mother and sir john conroy. it is quite likely that this relationship was the true reason for victoria's distaste for both her mother and conroy. i also found it odd that there was an attempt to portray the relationship between victoria and lord melbourne as erring on the romantic, or at least having the potential to become romantic. he was already in his late 50's when victoria came to the throne, and while marriages between older men and young women were common in that era, the movie portrays melbourne as being a dashing 30 something and rival to prince albert. there were apparently rivals to albert, but she could never have married even slightly below her station in life, and albert was one of only a handful who would have been acceptable in any case.<br /><br />all in all i have spent worse times at the cinema, and brownie points with my wife can't be a bad thing either.