it is queen victoria's misfortune to be defined as an historical figure according to her relationships with men.shortly after she succeeded to the throne she came under the influence of her prime minister lord melbourne to the extent that she became known as "mrs melbourne".after the death of her beloved husband,albert,she was referred to as "the widow at windsor",and years later,a long friendship with her scottish ghillie john brown earned her the nickname "mrs brown".such is the price women paid in a patriarchal society. the reality is somewhat different and "young victoria" goes some way towards putting the record straight,depicting the queen as an intelligent and independent young woman conscious of the inequities in her society and at her court. courts have always been hotbeds of seething jealousy,plotting and counter-plotting,naked ambition and sometimes,outright murder. as an 18 year old innocent,victoria ascended to her uncle's throne,thus initiating a positive orgy of intrigue and a power-struggle between prime minister lord melbourne and his rival sir robert peel. lord melbourne cuts a dash in the old public school man kind of way with his finely-honed cynicism and his well-polished gems of advice. hardly surprising then that the young queen finds herself in awe of him,and even perhaps a little in love,an awe that he ruthlessly exploits,drawing a fine line between attempted seduction and attempted sedition as he forces his policies through against victoria's better judgement. into the arena rides prince albert,on a mission from king leopold of belgium,keen on political rapprochement between great britain and the rest of europe. at first a reluctant suitor,he soon falls in love with the english queen and palliates the influence of the politicians and courtiers. "the young victoria" is a beautifully photographed,brilliantly-scored and very sumptuous movie.i note that it has been criticised in some quarters for this sumptuousness as if a movie about 19th century english royalty should somehow have shown the empress of india and her family living in rags in a filthy workhouse........i don't think so. i must single out the remarkable miss emily blunt whose beauty reminded me of the young princess margaret's.hers is obviously the pivotal role, and she has absolutely no trouble in dominating the film despite strong performances from mr jim broadbent,miss miranda richardson and miss harriet walter,all immeasurably more experienced. the music is suitably regal and forms a cohesive part of the whole movie without being in any way obtrusive. the fact that britan flourished more under its two great queens,elizabeth the first and victoria,than at any other time is a matter feminists might like to make more of,but,i suspect,like prime minister margaret thatcher really powerful women make them feel uncomfortable.if you can work out why there might be a ph.d . in it.