what more can be said? i have not been this fascinated with a young actress since cate blanchett burst upon the scene over ten years ago. and although both blanchett and blunt have played queens now( seems to be the benchmark for up and coming actresses), the roles are complete polar opposites.<br /><br />simply put if you are looking for high passion, compelling drama, and machiavellian intrigue, this is not the movie for you. this isn't to say that the script or direction was bad, its just that the subject of the film did not lead too dramatic a life when compared to other notable royals like elizabeth i, anne boylen, henry viii, henry v, henry ii and elainor of acquitane. these are people whose lives were the stuff such as good soap operas are made of and whose policies and decisions altered the course of british ,and in most cases, world history. victoria, in contrast, ascended the throne without incident, she quasi-governed a nation that was fast becoming a global power due to industrialization and the rise of the navy, her state had a stable government led by competent and dynamic politicians, and she married young had a harmonious family life. the facts of her life are not the sturm und drag such as powerful dramas are made of.<br /><br />the heart of the film, aside from the attempt to dramatize her stultifying upbringing and the machinations surrounding her throne, is the story of the one thing that was truly shocking and surprising about her reign- a love story. marriage made for financial or political reasons is with reason not necessarily the place to look for world shaking passion, yet victoria will always be remembered in history as being sort of a patron saint marital fidelity, happiness and ideal family life. thus, central to the film is the budding love of victoria and her prince albert. i was very taken with rupert friend's characterization of albert whom he portrayed as a kind, patient, somewhat earnest and maybe a touch naive young man, looking to" do good in the world and help". in short, he is a good man with a good heart, not the most dynamic figure to base a drama around, but as that is not the point of the story, that does not matter. the heart of the character shines through thanks to friend's understated yet earnest performance. <br /><br />as for the queen, well..emily blunt is sublime. her beauty cannot be denied, but she is more than something pretty to look at; her face is like quicksilver because of her expressiveness. the slightest arch of the eyebrow, glance of the eye or slight wry smile delivers so much. again, this is not a bombastic performance of heavy speeches and impassioned pleas, its not that kind of movie. but what ms. blunt does do with the role is show the simple humanity of the character with potent subtlety. <br /><br />for example, we see the joie de vivre that has been kept in check by victoria's mother ( miranda richardson) and her scheming adviser/lover conroy expressed in the simple things like victoria trying to sketch her dog. we see her delight and fascination upon first meeting albert by her eyes being continually drawn to him. we see her nervous and overwhelmed when addressing parliament upon her ascension. and my favorite scene of all in the film- we see her nervous, happy, and hopeful as she steels herself to do what really most women never have to do in their life- ask the man she loves to marry her, a proposition so ridiculous for those times( and some would say now) that victoria bursts out in nervous laughter before she can even say "marry me". again, this is not a movie for over the top larger than life expressions, but more a study in the subtleties of a character and making the little things say so much.<br /><br />so, overall, i judge the film by what it is and what it tried to do and as such i give it a 7. i felt that some of the politics could be better explained and that some very fine actors were wasted with little do and little character development, namely miranda richardson as the duchess of kent, and the characters of conroy and lord peal. again, the film need not have spent a large amount of time on those characters, but a little more exposition would have helped to explain the political environment. also i would have loved to have seen more of the adjustment to married life between victoria and albert, but that may be just my greed for more scenes between friend and blunt. <br /><br />in summary, don't view this film in terms of a historical drama but for what it really is, a love story between two characters that happen to be historical figures. i give this film a solid 7 for wonderful lead performances, brilliant costumes and scenery and the magnificent victoria of emily blunt. and anyone who has any shred of romance left in them, you will be touched by the end of this movie. god save the queen.