princess victoria (emily blunt) is in line for the throne of england. the present king william (jim broadbent) is not well and may not live long. however, vicky's scheming mother, the duchess of kent (miranda richandson) and her aide, john (mark strong) want to force victoria to sign papers declaring them to be the "regents" until she is older, since she is only 20 years of age. the young lady refuses, despite john slapping her around. it is another sign that victoria has a strong will and deep love for her country. yet, when william does pass away, shortly after her 21st birthday, victoria knows she has a heavy duty before her. first, she must surround herself with the "right" advisers to govern wisely. she chooses handsome lord melbourne (paul bettany) who, although an older man, is mentioned as a suitor for vicky. which brings us to the young queen's second major decision. sooner than not, the young queen should select her future mate, as it will bring stability to her life and to those of the kingdom, for an heir must appear in the coming years. meanwhile, in germany, some distant relatives of the british royal family are hatching some plans as well. handsome prince albert (rupert friend), of the saxon-coburg dynasty, is prodded by his father to court the young english royal. once he arrives at the palace, he is smitten and the feeling seems to be mutual. but, since he is a minor player on the map of royal match-making, can he succeed in winning her heart? this is a lovely film, made even better by a completely winning performance by emily blunt as victoria. yes, she is beautiful but it is her intelligent reading of the role that scores mightily. friend, too, does well, as do the other actors, including broadbent, richardson, bettany, strong (what a repulsive role!), and the rest. also, the movie is gorgeously shot, costumed, and set, making it a visual treat in every way. if anything is lacking, it is an extra dose of dazzle, as the film seems a bit too straightforward and prosaic, at times, with a somewhat unimaginative edit. however, this is only a minor, minor point of argument in an overall very successful and gorgeous film. in short, young and old, should make time for young victoria. it is a most worthy film among 2009 cinematic offerings.