this movie appears to have designed as a fred astaire-ginger rogers film--the plot outline, dance numbers, zippy music and the entire formula is there...except for ginger! whether it really was originally intended as a re-pairing of the team is uncertain but it sure has the look of one of these films. instead of the usual sidekicks for fred (such as eric blore or edward everett horton), burns and allen are used--probably since despite being known as a comedy team, they could sing and dance quite well. this actually shocked me, but the team were a welcome addition and some of the traditional fred and ginger numbers were done with either fred and gracie or these two along with george. only once, at the very end, does ms. fontaine dance with fred but it's very brief and with a distant camera shot.<br /><br />and speaking of burns and allen, i think i owe it to the team to talk about them in the film. i have never been a fan of their show or their movies. in general, i find gracie's idiot act very annoying and i have given some poor reviews to their movie shorts and full-length films. however, in this film i must admit that they were great--not only dancing competently but i actually thought they were funny and filled the hole left by edward everett horton very nicely. they were on top of their game and the writers did a wonderful job in this department.<br /><br />now as for the rest of the film, it's all a lot of fun and is entertaining. the problem for me, though, was that joan fontaine was not a particularly good choice for the movie--not just because she was acting outside her range (after all, she wasn't a singer or dancer), but because she had the screen presence of a ball of lint. because of this, the usual balance and great boy-girl dialog was lacking. there was also a very charming performance by harry watson as a devilish little boy who did everything he could do to play cupid--all because he wanted to win a bet! and finally, i loved the fun house and tunnel of love sequence--it is too hard to describe but is so much fun to watch! overall, i did like the film quite a bit--it had a lot of charm and excellent writing. unfortunately, it also featured a bland performance by ms. fontaine that knocks off a point--bringing my score for this film to 7.