kabei: our mother (2008) is a poetic and sublime beauty from japan. a real weeper! i had heard great reviews for the film and rented it from netflix. am i glad i did! in many ways this film reminded me of the old style of japanese classic film-making from the 1940's and 1950's that i've come to love so much, such as seen in yasujiro ozu pictures -- the title credits even begin in the same way, with the japanese letters (characters) in red against neutral color burlap material. i immediately thought: this director loves ozu. the same style was used too: mostly indoor sets with only a few outdoor scenes. even a couple of "pillow shots", as roger ebert calls them. the strength of the film is built on the love of the characters for one another.<br /><br />the story follows the lives of a japanese family before, and during, and after, world war two. the mother takes care of her growing girls the best she can after the father (a university professor) is arrested for anti-war sympathies. he's never freed and only has a few brief meetings with his wife in prison before he dies of starvation and disease. meanwhile a former student of the professor comes by often to help take care of the mother and two girls. he begins to fall in love with the mother and is a substitute father for the two girls. but war starts and he's drafted and they have to say an abrupt farewell. will they ever express their love for one another? will he ever return from the war? <br /><br />there is so much heart and gentle spirit in the performance of the lead actress, sayuri yoshinaga. she's almost a madonna type, she's so beautiful! big soulful eyes and flawless skin. the actor who plays the student is phenomenal as well: his name is tadanobu asano. what a sensitive performance. there is no macho in him at all; he's gentle and kind. i'd certainly love to see both of these two in other movies. i think i'll check to see what's available for them. the two little child actresses are wonderful too.<br /><br />the film is just released on ntsc dvd for american audiences, with very easy to read english subtitles. i gave it a 10 out of 10 on the imdb. i cried almost as much as with the japanese film classic twenty-four eyes (1954). don't miss this film!