"i hate those stories that begin with a funeral, but i'm afraid this one begins the day we buried george. not that we buried him. in the interests of the environment we had him incinerated." so speaks elizabeth (judi dench), george's widow. she's led a comfortable, predictable life with george. she has two grown children and a 12-year-old grandchild. but when she was 15 and in school, in the midst of world war ii, she played the sax at night in an all-girl (almost all-girl) band called the blonde bombshells. the 'almost" was because the drummer was patrick, a charming rogue who had no desire to fight and possibly be killed. with a yellow wig, a long red dress and makeup, patrick looked almost as good as the others. <br /><br />one afternoon after the funeral, elizabeth finds herself in the attic of her home playing the sax she had put away. she used to practice, but only when george was out of the house on the golf course. then two things happen. her granddaughter, amazed at how good elizabeth is, starts talking about how the blonde bombshells could be reunited and play at her school dance. then elizabeth encounters patrick (ian holm), now just as much an aging oldster as elizabeth, and just as much attracted to her as he was more than 50 years ago. (he also was attracted to all the other members of the bombshells. the roses that would appear on his bass drum had a special meaning that attested to his affection.) well, why not see if the other band members can be located, and why not give it a shot for a reunion performance at her granddaughter's school? <br /><br />why not? one member of the band is gaga. one is dead. one is in jail. one has found salvation with the salvation army. one they can find no trace of. one is last known to be in the states. one is a professional singer and has no intention of doing a school gig, even for a reunion. but one by one elizabeth and patrick bring together the surviving members of the bombshells. we don't know if enough of them can be found. the rehearsals more often than not turn into off-key shambles. while they do this, we share elizabeth's flashbacks of what life was like when she and patrick were young in war-time london, playing in the band while the bombs were falling. as terrible as it was, it was the most exciting time of their lives. when the night of elizabeth's granddaughter's dance arrives, of course, the blonde bombshells, filled with jitters and renewed friendship, blow the youngsters away. afterwards, elizabeth informs us that the bombshells are continuing to play at gigs, and that she and patrick have no plans to get married...but see nothing wrong with a little fooling around. <br /><br />this is sentimental hogwash, expertly done, and not bad at all. what makes it work are the skill and charm of judi dench and ian holm. when i hear the term, "warm-hearted comedy," i usually cringe unless the actors are first-rate. dench and holm are wonders to watch as they take something as light-weight and predictable as this script and turn it into something that charms us. then there's the "old broad" gambit that's fun if you remember the old broads. among the blonde bombshells are leslie caron, joan sims, olympia dukakis, billie whitelaw and cleo laine. laine sings three numbers and almost over-balances the production. she is so strong and unique a jazz talent that while she's singing the program nearly becomes the cleo laine show. another attractive feature is the number of great wwii songs played in strong swing.