plague replaces femme fatale in this highly suspenseful noir shot in new orleans by director elia kazan. kazan as always gets fine performances from his actors but also shows a visual flair for claustrophobic suspense with a combination of tight compositions and stunning single shot chase scenes. <br /><br />a man entering the country illegally is killed after a card game. it turns out he has a form of bubonic plague so it remains crucial not only to arrest the killers but to find an inoculate all those who have had contact. city and health officials implement a plan of secrecy rather than alert the community for fear the culprits will flee the city and spread the disease. a detective and an epidemiologist up against the clock form an uneasy alliance as they comb the waterfront employing their contrasting investigatory styles. <br /><br />streets raises a huge ethical question about the publics right to know as the medical officer argues for a media blackout thus possibly creating a greater risk to the community. regardless of outcome, you still may find yourself second guessing the actions of the the film's protagonist. <br /><br />richard widmark as dr.clint reed and paul douglas as detective warren display short tempers and grudging respect for each other in their search for the killers. barbera bel geddis as reed's wife has some good moments with widmark in some domestic scenes that bring the right touch of (restful more than comic) relief from the tensions of the desperate search amid the grim environs of the new orleans waterfront impressively lensed by cinematographer joe mcdonald. zero mostel as a small time criminal is slimy and reprehensible but at times sympathetic. walter jack palance as the skeletal blackie (black death?) is simply outstanding. with riveting intensity palance dominates every scene he is in not only with ample threat but disturbing charm as well. in addition he displays a formidable athleticism that allows for a more suspenseful continuity, especially in the film's powerful final allegorical moments. <br /><br />panic in the streets is probably kazan's best non-brando film. it's tension filled, suspensefully well paced and edited. it's ambient on locale setting lends a sense of heightened reality that allows kazan the flexibility to display his visual style beyond the movie stage and with panic he succeeds with aplomb.