i couldn't help but feel that this could have been a bigger movie than it was. the screenplay is highly intelligent and it just seemed that it could have been opened up in a way more reminiscent of seven. not by changing the story - i think mainly through the cinematography. the cinematography was the only thing that i found to be holding back the film. on the other hand, the pacing was absolutely on point. whoever worked on the editing really did their job well. and i thought bill paxton did a great job of directing. now away from the technical stuff...<br /><br />this movie threw me for a loop. spoiler ahead!!!! all along, i really felt that bill paxton was crazy and then when adam finally took the fbi agent to the rose garden to show him where the bodies were buried and revealed who he was, i got thrown for a loop. i had suspected the first part of the twist but what really threw me was when he touches the agent and sees the agent murder his mother and the fact that the agent too (without any words spoken, simply by touch) sees it again with adam and asks him how he knew. my dilemma was not that it was yet another twist thrown in but the almost ungraspable idea that this man and his father were not crazy but actually picked out 'bad guys' so to speak, knowing their sins and crimes already. i don't endorse an eye for an eye so i didn't leave the film being able to believe that they were doing god's work. instead i chose to believe that they were both clairvoyant and that the father had gone off the deep end one day from it and through the things that he subjected his sons to, disturbed them permanently also. that was my interpretation but the vexing thing about the film was it's like a house of cards and a never-ending circle and what is the correct interpretation of the disturbing events you've sat through. it's definitely one of those movies where i'd love to be able to meet the writer so i could just ask him what the real meaning was to it all. were they crazy and psychotic? were they simply telepathic and took license because of it? or did they have some sort of appearance from god? and if so, was it god or the devil disguising himself as god. my friends and i found ourselves talking about it all night trying to figure out what was what and what the filmmakers had thought was the answer when they made this movie.<br /><br />a definitely perplexing and thought invoking film with some very disturbing but certainly not sensationalistic elements to it. it's not a perfect film, but it definitely is it's own thing. great directorial work and acting by bill paxton and the child that played fenton was extremely good. i hope he doesn't end up relegated to the child actor syndrome as he seems to have a lot of promise. i gave this movie a good vote for the majority of the components that make a film, but i would have voted higher if wasn't for the feeling that something (although i can't pinpoint what) was off and if it hadn't have been, the movie would have gone to an even higher level. still, a definite recommend, especially for those that are inquisitive.