in christian duguay's movie, hitler: the rise of evil, hitler's early years in life and politics is shown in a successful way with some minor historical errors and some exaggeration. it is quite natural for a hollywood movie to contain such things as the main purpose of production is the income that they will get from the movie. even though such errors may disappoint some members of the audience who believes that everything should be done by the book, i believe that most of them fits well with the rest of the movie, making it more interesting. we should not forget that this movie is not a documentary. who cares how did his dog died anyway.<br /><br />throughout the movie, hitler is portrayed as a psychologically unstable figure that gets angry very easily and is very passionate about his ideals. but he was not portrayed as a super-villain but more like an ambitious politician. i believe that this is a nice perspective as the movie is not contaminated by tons of negative emotions and this made the movie somewhat objective. yes he was a little mad, and his methods were rough but he was still a human not a totally insane figure as portrayed in "inglorious bastards". i believe it made the movie more realistic even with some inaccuracies in the historical facts.<br /><br />the flow of history is nicely reflected to spectators. even though the movie's focus was around hitler we also had chance to see what is happening in the country as a result of these actions via newspapers, discussions of people and the songs in a jewish cabaret. also society's reaction was also reflected to movie but it was very limited. struggles of journalist fritz gerlich and ironic plays that are played in the cabaret was amusing and interesting but that was all. mostly we only saw his followers rampaging the streets and cheering him.<br /><br />another thing that was missing in the movie is information about the origins of his hatred for jews. in the beginning of the movie, some ideas about this is given but they were quite superficial. all of a sudden he was a politician who is giving speeches about necessity of extermination of jews.<br /><br />in conclusion, hitler: the rise of evil cannot be considered as an excellent movie that everyone will like but it is not unsatisfactory at all. if you can stand directors that change history for cash, it is an interesting movie reflecting hitler's personality in a successful way.