honestly, i was expecting to hate this one, and really only checked it out because jenna jameson is in it...but i have to say i got a kick out of evil breed. a group of college kids and their teacher go on a "field trip" to ireland. their lodgings are located near the woods where it is rumored that strange things happen and tourists often disappear without a trace. the group of post-teens is warned by the property's caretaker not to venture into the woods - but being the stupid b-movie characters that they are - of course they pay no attention and pay for their mistake one-by-one... first off, there is plenty wrong with evil breed. the acting/dialog is pretty weak, and my major gripe is that a film that has jenna jameson, chasey lain, ginger lynn, and taylor hayes should have far more gratuitous nudity than was on display here - and jenna's role in this production is grossly over-hyped, as she has a combined total of about 2 minutes of screen time. even less with chasey, and ginger lynn shows no skin and has the worst irish accent ever. also the last scene of the film makes absolutely no sense and feels like it's thrown in just to end the film. those gripes aside - there is some good stuff as well. richard greico and chasey lain are both dispatched early on, with greico's nude torso ending up on a roasting spit and chasey's guts hanging out from being torn in half (though how she ends up this way isn't shown on-screen)...not bad for the first 5 minutes. the other kill scenes are pretty inventive, including jenna's forced breast implant removal, a guy getting his colon pulled out through his ass, a knife through the face, and a few other notables. the implant and colon scenes also have uncut versions that are on the special features and it's a shame the producers made them chop 'em, so to speak. also the film moves along at a pretty good clip once it gets moving so you don't really have too much time to be bored. the "creature" fx are also done competently which definitely helps. overall, evil breed was not nearly as bad as i expected. this one, along with satan's little helper have almost renewed my interest in american low-budget straight-to-video films. i usually steer clear of them as a whole, but these two have been decent enough to give me some faith. evil breed is no masterpiece, but it is a decent way to blow 90 minutes - might not hurt to suck on a bottle of cheap bourbon while you're at it - i know i was, and i'm sure it didn't hurt the experience. 7.5/10