if you were a director that was looking to cast female victims for a slasher movie, then surely it would make sense to add a couple of porn stars? it's not as if they're inexperienced in front of the camera, they have no qualms with the requisite nudity and how many unattractive porn queens can you name? christian viel obviously recognized the potential of mixing hardcore actresses with hard-gore effects and so he cast four of adult cinema's sexiest and most notorious stars. jenna jameson, chasey lain, ginger lynn allen and taylor hayes all turn up for cameos in arguably the most intriguing slasher flick to be released since scream reinvigorated the genre.<br /><br />samhain was originally intended for a cinema release in october 2002 - thus keeping in check with the halloween-based synopsis. unfortunately, the shoot was plagued by numerous problems, which have thus prevented the feature from achieving the exposure that it deserves. last i heard it had been signed by film 2000 here in the uk and was penned for a late october release direct to dvd. unfortunately that label has got a peerlessly abysmal track record with dtv slashers. not content with polluting our shelves with camp blood and its follow up, they were also responsible for unleashing granny, bleed and the rancid paranoid. could samhain finally be worthwhile ammunition to their contemptible catalogue cannon? <br /><br />five canadian/american students and their teacher head to southern ireland as part of their history course. upon arrival they are told the legend of a cannibalistic clan that roamed the hills of scotland and murdered locals for food. the cannibals were eventually caught and burnt at the stake, but it's rumored that one of the tribe escaped and headed to the woodland of ireland to find refuge. after the kids have settled and begun doing what all massacre-fodder does in these flicks, the mandatory goody two-shoes (and definite heroine candidate) begins to be spooked by a shadow creeping around late at night. could it be that the flesh hungry maniac is still at large in the forest? well what do you think