i sought this film out because i'm a new frain fan and wanted to see more of his work. first of all, his irish accent is great. he's got a keen ear for dialects, it seems. his acting was marvelous, as usual. james frain aside, i thought the film was very well done. it showed the conflict in northern ireland as the *mess* it really is. both sides are guilty of grave injustices, and the men drawn into the conflict usually have very little to say about their circumstances.<br /><br />also, it is interesting to realise that not every man (or woman) that is supposedly fighting for his country, is really doing *just* that. for example, when kenny (james frain) asks ginger (ian hart) why he does "it", ginger can't come up with a morally acceptable answer. why? because ginger isn't in it for the noble cause of protecting his country or the rights of his fellow protestants...ginger is in it for the fun of killing. he's full of blood-lust and it's the perfect job for a guy like him. in a struggle like this there are guys like liam (john lynch) who just want to live their daily lives and enjoy their families...guys that see all of the fighting just begats more fighting. there are guys like kenny that are born leaders full of charisma, and they add fuel to the flames, rather they mean to or not. also, kenny genuinely believes in the "cause". he believes what he is doing will make a difference in the future...which is a bit odd 'cause his character seems too intelligent for it all. but, like a lot of other seemingly intelligent men, he is sucked into a gang lifestyle not even realizing it...'til it's too late. then there is ginger, a pure psycho who isn't in the fighting for any other reason but for the sheer thrill of it, which in a gangland type war makes him a valued asset, some might argue. however, now, in this film, ginger has out lasted his worth, and has become a very dangerous loose cannon.<br /><br />everything comes to a boiling point, and predictably, the ending is a tragic one. what makes this film worthy is that is shows both sides of this ages old conflict. being american, i can't begin to fully understand what all struggle is about. but, i do know there has to be a better way.<br /><br />all in all, a well acted, touching...but troubling film.