if you want to be cynical and pedantic you could point out that the opening where a raf lancaster bomber is mortally wounded on the 2nd of may 1945 is somewhat unlikely since german air defences were as lively as adolph hitler on that day but this isn't a movie that should be viewed by a cynical audience and i guess a character being killed in literally the last hours of the war adds to the poignancy . in fact you'd have to have survived the second world war to fully appreciate the intellect , beauty and soul of powell and pressburger's masterpiece . the scenes of heaven are painfully twee when viewed today ? again you have to view the movie of the context when it was made . raf bomber command lost 58,000 men during the war , the same number that america lost in 'nam but during a shorter period and a far , far smaller pool of active combatants , there's no atheists in a fox hole and i doubt if you'd lost a relative during the conflict you'd view material atheism as being a sensible thing . when richar attenborough's young pilot looks down in awe at the sight below him many war heroes must have openly wept at this scene as they remembered much missed comrades who didn't survive the war . also bare in mind that despite losing several million people from 1939-45 there seems to be very few people from germany passing through the pearly gates . it's obvious nazis don't go to heaven <br /><br />the plot itself where dashing young pilot peter carter arguing for his life in front of a celestial court wouldn't have had much appeal to me if it wasn't for the subtext , you see a matter or life and death is a highly political and visionary film that laments the end of the british empire as it's replaced by american ambitions . there's little things that show up the film as being made by people aware of american history and culture . one is the ethnic mix of america , even today many britons think that the usa is overwhelmingly composed of white anglo saxon protestants when in fact only 51% of americans are " white european " . the film rightly contains a scene where a multitude of different races confess " i am an american " as peter is judged by abraham farlan , an anglophobe who was the first revolutionary killed by british forces in the american war of independence . as for the " special relationship " between britain and america - what special relationship ? powell and pressburger know their history when it comes to britain and america . they obviously know their future too <br /><br />so remember to watch this movie with some of your mind in the past and some of your mind in the present . it's strange , beautiful , poignant and clever but most of all it's a film that would never ever work if it were made in the last 40 years . can you imagine if the story was set in 2003 and revolved around a british soldier killed in iraq ?