before this little black-and-whiter, the touchy topic of criminal rape never made it onto the american screen.there were lots of these topics that hollywood and the production code kept hidden until the rebellious 1960's. so it's not surprising that it would take a little independent company like ida lupino's filmmakers to raise the subject. the result is well-meaning but somewhat compromised, which is not surprising since director lupino had to work with code demands to get the movie released.<br /><br />interestingly, ann walton's (mala powers) main problem following the assault is not how others might see her, but how she sees herself. and it's a heavy load she's carrying. will she ever be able to relate to men again? will they look at her as "spoiled goods" (after all, this is 1950)? small wonder she runs away rather than face these anxieties at home and at work, even though family and friends are generally supportive. overall, this first part is earnest and well-done. the chase is hyped to inject some action into the plot, but then this is a movie-- notice how the incurious neighbor fails to respond to the honking horn near chase's end. had those been screams of alarm from powers instead, the neighbor's lack of response would have raised an interesting albeit complicating issue.<br /><br />the second half is pretty much given over to the production code in the sentimentalized person of rev. ferguson (tod andrews). it's he (to quote a phrase) who "gives her courage to face life again". there's some effort at humanizing him-- is it ann or her dilemma that he's most interested in. still, his gentle and understanding presence comes across as a little too miraculous and a little too hollywood. fortunately, the ending avoids the usual hollywood cop-out by emphasizing only the hope of a happy resolution for ann rather than its certainty. <br /><br />give lupino a ton of credit for dealing with the topic in the first place. given the overall results, i expect she dealt as honestly with the topic as she was allowed to. i also expect today's audiences find the treatment mildly interesting mainly because of powers' excellent performance that brings out the purely human drama. however, the film works best now as a document of its time, and what the cultural watchdogs of that day thought was appropriate for adult viewing.