didn't mystic pizza win the oscar for that year? this movie never had a chance, due to the casting, but perhaps by now people can see why i felt that way upon leaving the theater. only "wargames" left me feeling similarly disturbed after leaving the theater, with the feeling i was getting a glimpse of our future. history has shown that this is exactly what happened.<br /><br />the casting is a pop-culture cuisinart of the 1980s: you get arnold as ben richards, the framed fugitive offered a chance to "run" for his freedom on the game show with the same title as the movie; richard dawson as damon killian, treating his role as if he were the host of family feud with the contestants using real guns; jesse ventura as "captain freedom" and co-wrestler professor tanaka as "subzero," both "stalkers" who kill the "running men." even mick fleetwood (mic) and dweezil zappa (stevie) show up, while the "dancers of the future" are none other than the laker girls. this movie screams "80s." the plot is a good excuse for the action: ben richards is determined to prove his innocence, but agrees to be the running man when he is told that his buddies would be set free; instead, they join him as "contestants." maria conchita alonzo as amber mendez is the standard by which one can properly judge salma hayek in the 1990s.<br /><br />the production value on the film was a bit poor, the lines were cheesy, and (at the time), the plot seemed a bit far-fetched. i remember thinking when i was leaving the theater that we were definitely heading in the direction of the film, but who could have seen how far we'd go there and how fast? if the running man were listed in tv guide, most people would assume it were just another reality show pushing the envelope today. the government influences on the media have only gotten worse, and the dumbed-down american public of the future that surrenders all of its freedoms for "national security" is downright chilling. ben richards is played brilliantly by arnold as one of the few remaining holdouts against a government tyranny that the rest of america is all too willing to accept in return for good television and some parting gifts for the audience.<br /><br />the movie was way over the top, maybe even off the cliff for its time, but as with back to the future iii, the "ravine" it appeared to be sinking itself into in 1987 was replaced by completed tracks in 2006 and beyond, and this movie will sail into the future as one of the more prophetic films of our time. it is tragic that, as with wargames, the academy did not give this brilliant screenplay the recognition it deserved. "serious" actors acting seriously while being so pretentious that you want to throw up may win more oscars, but that doesn't make them better films than their "common man" counterparts, such as this one.<br /><br />an absolute must-see.