arnold once again in the 80's demonstrated that he was the king of action and one liners in this futuristic film about a violent game show that no contestant survives. but as the tag line says arnold has yet to play! the movie begins in the year 2019 in which the world economy has collapsed with food and other important materials in short supply and a totalitarian state has arisen, controlling every aspect of life through tv and a police state. it's most popular game show is the running man, in which criminals are forced to survive against "stalkers" that live to kill them.<br /><br />the movie opens with ben richards (arnold) leading a helicopter mission to observe a food riot in progress. he is ordered by his superiors to fire on them, refusing to gets him knocked out and thrown in prison, in the meantime they slaughtered the people without his help. the government blames richards for the massacre earning him the name "butcher of bakersfield". eighteen months later richards along with two friends william laughlin (koto) and harold weiss (mcintyre) breakout of a detention zone they worked in. they make their way to the underground, led by mic (mick fleetwood). mic quickly identifies richards as the "butcher of bakersfield" and refuses to help him, but his friend's convince him otherwise. they want him to join the resistance, but he'd rather go live with his brother and get a job. soon he finds that his brother has been taken away for reeducation and a woman name amber mendez (alonso) has taken his apartment. knowing who he is she won't help him, but he convinces her, but is busted at the airport by the cops after she ratted him out.<br /><br />meantime, the running man is having trouble finding good new blood for the there stalkers to kill. damon killian (dawson) the shows host and one of the most powerful men in the country sees richards escape footage and is able to get him for the show after his capture. richards refuses to play, killian threatens to use his friends instead of him, so he signs the contract. you'll love that part. but soon he finds they will join him as well and makes sure killian knows he'll be back. the runners begin to make there way through the zones and fight characters that are memorable, sub-zero, buzz saw and many others. eventually richards is joined by amber who suspected he was set up but was caught and thrown into the game too. together they find the underground and make there way back to killian and give him a farewell send off.<br /><br />the running man is another one of arnold's great movies from the 80's. the movie was apparently somewhat based on stephen king's book of the same name. some have said that the book is better. i'm sure it's not and i don't care anyway i loved the movie. as in all of arnold's films the acting is what you would expect with classic one liners from arnold and even ventura gets a couple in. but without a doubt richard dawson is the standout in this film. being a real game show host he easily spoofed himself and was able to create a character that was truly cold blooded. the whole movie itself somewhat rips on game shows and big brother watching you. keep an eye out for them poking fun and some old shows, "hate boat" among others. also the cast was great besides arnold, koto, and alonzo don't forget professor toru tanaka, jim brown, ventura and sven-ole! with all the reality tv nonsense that goes on it almost fits in better now, but i'm sure the hollywood liberals would make it into a movie about the "evil bush". the new dvd had mostly poor extras meet the stalkers being the only redeemable one. some how the aclu managed to get some of there communism into the dvd and is laughable garbage that should not be anywhere near an arnold movie of all things. blasphemy! overall for any arnold fan especially we who grew up in the 80's on him ,you can't miss this. its one of the first ones i saw back in the 80's and it's still great to this day. the futuristic world and humor are great. overall 10 out 10 stars, definitely one of his best.