prussic gas, a murderer donning a red clansman suit and hood wielding a white whip, and the murders of college school girls at the hands of paid convicts enlisted by a mysterious mastermind who keeps his face hidden within an office containing aquariums of turtles and fish. the inspectors at scotland yard, higgins(ijoachim fuchsberger)and his superior sir john(siegfried sch"urenberg)certainly have their hands full with this case. it all seems to center around student ann portland(uschi glas), who, when she turns 21, is to inherit a great deal of wealth. the girls who are targeted share a room with ann, but the reason for their murders remains a mystery sy's finest must figure out. the staff of the girls' dormitory all seem to be hiding something and certain members of the faculty are falling prey to the killer in the red monk robe disguise, talented enough to precisely strangle the necks of those attacked with the whip. two prisoners are commissioned by a mystery man to use the newly created toxic gas created by a scientist murdered at the beginning of the film during what was supposed to be a monetary exchange for his creation. it's a clever scheme where a driver, greaves(g"unter meisner)meets the convicts(..who hide in a barrel)who are assisted by a corrupt prison guard. taken blindfolded to the secret room of the mastermind, he gives them orders on who to kill and how. uncovering this operation is a top priority for higgins and sir john for it will lead them to the truth they seek in regards to the murders and why they are happening. under suspicion are girls' dormitory headmistress, her author brother, a sweaty, incredibly nervous chemistry teacher, a snooping gardener, and the bannister. some are red herrings until they are disposed of, throwing the viewer for a loop each time until the real mastermind is discovered. the ending features multiple twists. <br /><br />out of the krimi films i've seen, the college girl murders is the closest to a giallo with it's colorful killer, a convoluted plot yielding lots of surprises and potential suspects, & sordid shenanigans between adults and the college girls at the dormitory. i think you can also see the influence of james bond on this particular krimi film with the villain mastermind's secret hideout with an alligator pit(..which isn't used), the fake bible/water pistol, when opened, fires the gas into the face of startled victims, the greaves' royles royce which has latches that cause flaps to darken the windows without revealing the passenger in the back seat, and the peep holes used to spy on the girls in their rooms and while swimming. many might consider sir john a liability due to his bumbling, buffoonish behavior and how he often undermines higgins' abilities to get at the truth(..perhaps poking fun at know-it-all british inspectors who harm a case more than solve it)..i felt he was used as comedy relief, particularly with his attempts at psychoanalyzing suspects and potential victims, often misunderstanding what are told to him. higgins, using the skills adopted over his years as an investigator, instead follows the clues/facts, often avoiding sir john as much as possible. capable direction by the reliable alfred vohrer who keeps the pace humming at a nice speed, and the screenplay is full of interesting characters and lurid content..the fact that so many of the adults surrounding the dormitory are suspect, any of them might be the one wielding the whip or calling the shots behind those murdered girls' executions. i'd say this may be one of the best(..if not the best)examples of the krimi genre, for it keeps you guessing, always one more ace up it's sleeve..the revelations unearthed at the very end are quite eye-opening(..and, you even get a literal unmasking of the real mastermind pulling the strings to top it all off).