this is probably the fastest-paced and most action-packed of the german edgar wallace "krimi" series, a cross between the dr. mabuse films of yore and 60's pop thrillers like batman and the man from uncle. it reintroduces the outrageous villain from an earlier film who dons a stylish monk's habit and breaks the necks of victims with the curl of a deadly whip. set at a posh girls' school filled with lecherous middle-aged professors, and with the cops fondling their hot-to-trot secretaries at every opportunity, it certainly is a throwback to those wonderfully politically-incorrect times. there's a definite link to a later wallace-based film, the excellent giallo "whatever happened to solange?", which also concerns female students being corrupted by (and corrupting?) their elders. quite appropriate to the monk theme, the master-mind villain uses booby-trapped bibles here to deal some of the death blows, and also maintains a reptile-replete dungeon to amuse his captive audiences. <br /><br />alfred vohrer was always the most playful and visually flamboyant of the series directors, and here the lurid colour cinematography is the real star of the show. the monk appears in a raving scarlet cowl and robe, tastefully setting off the lustrous white whip, while appearing against purplish-night backgrounds. there's also a voyeur-friendly turquoise swimming pool which looks great both as a glowing milieu for the nubile students and as a shadowy backdrop for one of the murder scenes. the trademark "kicker" of hiding the "ende" card somewhere in the set of the last scene is also quite memorable here. and there's a fine brassy and twangy score for retro-music fans.<br /><br />fans of the series will definitely miss the flippant eddie arent character in these later films. instead, the chief inspector sir john takes on the role of buffoon, convinced that he has mastered criminal psychology after taking a few night courses. unfortunately, klaus kinski had also gone on to bigger and better things. the krimis had lost some of their offbeat subversive charm by this point, and now worked on a much more blatant pop-culture level, which will make this one quite accessible to uninitiated viewers.