another pokemon movie has hit the theaters, and again, i'm hearing the same old, "pokemon is dead, blah blah blah." the franchise's detractors couldn't be more wrong. kids are still playing the trading card game, they're still watching the tv series, they're waiting for the game boy advance games, and they want to see "pokemon the 4th movie."<br /><br />that said, "pokemon the 4th movie" introduces us to two more "legendary" pokemon: suicune, the "north wind" of lore, and celebi, guardian of the forest (and star of the show). celebi transports itself and a boy named sam 40 years into the future, to the present day, where pokemon trainer ash, his faithful pikachu, and his friends brock and misty are traveling through johto. sam and ash become fast friends, once they discover the other's mutual love for pokemon (sam's vintage pokeball with screw-on top is a great moment). together, they decide to protect celebi from the villain of the story, the team rocket agent aptly named vicious, who is hell-bent on capturing celebi for his own ends. will ash and sam be able to protect celebi from vicious' dark balls? where does suicune fit into the picture? will jessie, james, and meowth have bigger parts in this movie than before? and just who is sam, really?<br /><br />like with the first 3 movies, if you go into the movie deciding that you're automatically going to hate it no matter what simply because it's pokemon (or just because your child/niece/nephew/younger sibling/et cetera "dragged" you into it), then you're going to hate it because you've decided that you want to hate it. that may be, but to blindly trash "pokemon the 4th movie" simply because it is a pokemon movie, and especially without having seen it, is just plain stupid. even non-fans can enjoy this movie without having to know every last detail of the world of pokemon. i'm not saying that you will become a pokemon fan because of this movie, but you can indeed enjoy it, if you'll let yourself.<br /><br />unlike the first 3 pokemon movies, "pokemon the 4th movie" is being distributed by miramax, who i've heard is also working on securing the rights to the 5th pokemon movie, which was released this past summer in japan. miramax claims to have some boffo-aggressive marketing strategy for "pokemon the 4th movie," but all i've seen so far is a feeble limited release, which doesn't include the usual pikachu short in the beginning, which i was really looking forward to this time. i hope that miramax will see fit to put the pikachu short, called "pikachu's exciting hide-and-seek," onto at least the dvd/vhs release, if not with a future wider release of "pokemon the 4th movie." i hope that the current release is just the tip of the iceberg for this very entertaining film.