director alfred green's melodrama "baby face" with barbara stanwyck ranks as one of the more notorious of the pre-code movies. these films were produced before the production code administration had the power to enforce its rules in 1934. "inspiration" scenarist gene markey and "midnight mary" scribe kathryn scola penned the screenplay, based on mark canfield's story, about the rise and fall of a girl who used her sexual charms to acquire wealth and position in society. incidentally, mark canfield was a pseudonym for producer daryl f. zanuck. these pre-code films today seem tame, but they aroused controversy galore and contained more racy material than most movies until the late 1950s when the code began to erode. the themes that the filmmakers explore are women versus men, women versus women, and women versus society. our crafty protagonist does enough skulduggery that all themes are about equal.<br /><br />lily's worthless father nick powers (robert barret of "distant drums") operates an illegal speakeasy bar during prohibition, when the thirteen amendment outlawed liquor, and brews his own booze in a still out back. nick is such as an obnoxious fellow that he pimps out her beautiful, but hard-working daughter lily (barbara stanwyck of "night nurse"), but lily refuses to help her father out with a sleazy local politician. the politician. ed sipple (arthur hohl of "private detective 62") vows to retaliate for lily's refusal to accommodate him. later, nick chews his rebellious daughter out. lily reproaches him. "yeah, i'm a tramp and who's to blame? my father, a swell start you gave me, nothing but men, dirty, rotten men. and you're lower than any of them." no sooner has she stormed off than nick dies when his still blows up and kills him. lily and her african-american maid chico (theresa harris of "arrowsmith") pack their bags and catch a ride of the first freight leaving town.<br /><br />no sooner have our heroines arrived in new york than lily uses her charm to get a job in a bank. visually, director green shows lily's shrewd ascension up the ladder with camera angles that move upward until lily's sexuality threatens to destroy the bank. at one point, lily breaks up a marriage between one bank officer, ned stevens (donald cook of "the public enemy") and his fianc'ee, anne carter (margaret lindsay of "cavalcade") after stevens had almost fired her for flirting with her boss, brody (douglas dumbrille of "his women") in the employee restroom. lily is extremely shrewd and manages to emerge from each debacle better off than before. the board of trustees hires courtland trenholm (george bent of "jezebel") to take over as president of the bank. the first thing that trenholm does is pay off lily instead of letting her publish her diary entries about the higher ups at the bank. moreover, trenholm ships lily off to their branch bank in paris where lily doesn't create any commotion until trenholm arrives and they become romantically attached. lily fights tooth and nail for everything that she has gotten and hates to throw it all away, but she sacrifices everything at the end for her husband.<br /><br />ironically, lily winds up back in the same town that she started out in, but trenholm and she are happy now. "baby face" qualifies as one of the five best pre-code movies. look for john wayne dressed up in a suit and tie in one scene.