escaping the life of being pimped by her father(..and the speakeasy waitressing)who dies in an explosion, lily powers(barbara stanwyck, who is simply ravishing)sluts her way through the branches inside a bank business in big city gotham. when a possessive lover murders who was supposed to be his next father-in-law(and lily's new lover), the sky's the limit for lily as she has written down her various relationships in a diary and subtlety makes it known the papers will receive it if certain pay doesn't come into her hands. newly appointed president to the bank, courtland trenholm(george brent), sends lily to paris instead of forking over lots of dough, but soon finds himself madly in love after various encounters with her in the city of love. this makes lily's mouth water as now she'll have reached the pedestal of success seducing a man of wealth and prestige bring riches her way. though, circumstances ensue which will bring her to make a decision that threatens her successful way of achieving those riches..trenholm, now her husband, is being indicted with jail certain and has lost the bank. he needs money lily now has in her possession or he'll have absolutely nothing.<br /><br />stanwyck is the whole movie despite that usual warner brothers polish. being set in the pre-code era gives the filmmakers the chance to elaborate on taboo subjects such as a woman using sex to achieve success and how that can lead to tragedy. good direction from alfred e green shows through subtlety hints in different mannerisms and speech through good acting from the seductive performance of stanwyck how to stage something without actually showing the explicit act. obviously the film shows that money isn't everything and all that jazz as love comes into the heart of lily's dead heart. that ending having lily achieve the miraculous metamorphosis into someone in love didn't ring true to me. she's spent all this time to get to that platform only to fall for a man who was essentially no different than others she had used before him.