the pre-release version of 1933's "baby face" would make an ideal introduction to a corporate seminar on sexual harassment. mentored by a nietszchean professor, lily powers rises from a life of easy virtue at her father's speakeasy to a rapid climb up the corporate ladder at a large bank. because each rung of the ladder is an executive with his brain below his belt and his ethics locked in the vault, the film has no victims, except lily's childhood, which was destroyed by an abusive exploitative father. the destructive relationship with her father suggests lily's hidden motive for using men to advance without regard for their fate. while lily is cynical and obvious in her approach, the men she targets willingly betray wives and fianc'es to trade jobs for sexual favors. perhaps the bank failures in the 1930's owed less to economics than to morally corrupt executives distracted by ambitious women.<br /><br />the plot moves fast, and the camera amusingly moves from window to window up the facade of the office building as lily climbs ever higher. barbara stanwyck reveled in tough hard-bitten roles, and she is in top form here. sentiment does not intrude when she is ready to climb the next rung. only her african-american confidante, chico, receives lily's affection, trust, and loyalty. in more enlightened times, the fresh natural beauty of theresa harris, who plays chico, would have had the men throwing the furs and penthouses at her. stanwyck often appears overly made-up and stiffly coiffed in comparison to harris. however, despite stanwyck's tough demeanor, obvious tactics, and artificial visage, she manages to leave a trail of duped and seduced men, including douglass dumbrille, donald cook, and a young john wayne.<br /><br />the preferred version of "baby face" is the 76-minute restored cut. the edited release version of the film shyly turns from the hard facts, which the longer cut restores and makes explicit. perhaps darryl zanuck, who wrote the story under an assumed name, intended a lesson by quoting from nietszche, whose views on women were controversial. however, despite alphonse ethier's lectures and advice not to be defeated by life, lily's grab for power and money likely owed more to her upbringing and her father than to her professorial mentor. however, the philosophy is but a distraction. short, fast paced, and entertaining, "baby face" is as contemporary in its morality as "wall street." substitute gordon gecko for nietszche, and lily could have declared her guiding philosophy to be "greed is good."