this is such a fantastic movie, a western about a self-concerned man (jimmy stewart) going up to the klondike for gold. on the way, he gets hassled by a local sheriff in alaska (john mcintire, giving a wonderfully evil performance), whom he hassles back. mcintire threatens that he'll be a dead man if he ever comes back through his town, which is, unfortunately, the only way back to the states. the main chunk of the story is about the peaceful klondike town of dawson being turned upside down by new residents from mcintire's town. ruth roman, for instance, who has come with stewart and his two companions (jay c. flippen and walter brennen, who plays stewart's best friend), builds a saloon (a hollywood front for a whorehouse) and tries to run the town's restaurant and hang-out place out of business. she paves the way for mcintire and his goons to come up, too. in 1953, jimmy stewart and director anthony mann made one of the peaks of the western genre, the naked spur. the far country is just the tiniest bit less, and it contains 99.9% of what made that film so special without, of course, feeling like a cheap copy. like the naked spur, the far country boasts beautiful, on-location cinematography. the landscape is gorgeous. stewart gives one of his best performances (nearly equal to his biggest success of 1954, rear window). i suppose it could be considered cliche, as he starts out a selfish loner and learns how that kind of existence plays out in the end. still, stewart plays it so damn well, he makes this character very human. and the supporting performances are universally fantastic. in addition to those i've mentioned, the adorable french actress corinne calvet is very good. and i ought to single out walter brennen, as well. he seems to have specialized in playing best friends. his relationship with stewart is very touching, since he is, at first, the only character who is able to bring out any humanity in the cynical man. the screenplay is very well written, and mann's direction is impeccable. a masterpiece. 10/10.