it surprises me that i actually got the courage to watch the bio flick or flicks "che: parts 1 & 2". why? because if my cuban exile parents would ever found out i saw this movie about this despicable mass murderer of the cuban revolution, i would be grounded for life. hey wait? i am an adult, they can't ground me no mas. director steven soderbergh, and newbie commie (sorry steven, but i had to take soder shots here) divides the movie in two partes on commander ernesto "che" guevara's revolutionary life. "che: part 1" presents how che in the mid 1950's joined fidel castro's guerilla crew in their revolutionary quest to overthrow cuban president fulgencio batista's regime; which as we all know was a revolutionary success for them, but a gargantuan guerilla disaster to many cubans as it revolted into communism. "che: part 2" presents che trying to revolutionize the t-shirt industry by pitching t-shirts with his appalling bearbado face to t-shirt manufacturers. ok, i am che-chatting a lot of crap towards your way! i meant to say the 'che: part 2" focuses on che in the late 60's trying to bring back the revolution, this time to a poverty-stricken bolivia, but with far different results. in fact, che ended up being dead meat enchelada when he was captured and killed by the bolivian militia in 1967. soderbergh does not include the in-between time of those two instances in che's life when he commanded the despicable la cabana fortress prison in cuba, where he mass murdered many cubans who opposed communism. that is where i think soderbergh executed a cinematic injustice by not showing the viewers how atrocious guevara really was. i did decide to see "che" in hopes that soderbergh would not glamorize him, but instead present how disturbed he really was. unfortunately, soderbergh did not do the latter and sadly decided to present guevara as a revolutionary hero, which he was not. he was a sick man who thank god is now probably at the bottom of the devil barrel. now, i do have to be an objectivistic reviewer and must admit that benicio del toro's performance as che was extremely commanding, and worthy of merit. and that demian bichir was a haunting dead-ringer as fidel castro in his meticulous performance. but the rest of the cast of "che" was primarily comprised of mediocre performances of actors portraying guerilla soldiers. and as much as i do admire matt damon, why did sodebergh throw him in the revolutionary mix in a spanish-speaking cameo performance portraying a bolivian delegate? soderbergh did not have to present this biopic which is mostly "too much talk and not enough action" in 4 hours and 30 minutes. we have had too much of che already, even posthumously with those ridiculous t-shirts, so why give us too much more of him? but i guess when you have the del toro by the horns (as you did here steven), i guess it is your saving grace for not totally executing "che: parts 1 &2". *** average