here is the example of a film that was not well received when it was made, but whose standing seems to be raising in time. 'the tenant' is quite an interesting work by polanski, one of the first of his european exile. it is set in paris, and as in so many other exile films the city, its streets, the seine and especially the building where the action takes place play an important role. it is just that polanski chooses his principal character not to be an american (as in 'frantic' for example) but a pole, as himself was when going west. there is actually a lot of personal commentary in this film, made at what must have been a time of crisis in the director's life, and the fact that he decided to play the lead role (and does it masterfully) may also be seen as some kind of exorcism.<br /><br />it's in a way a circular story. the hero named trelkovsky rents an apartment in old parisian building, inhabited by what seem to be first a well assorted team of grumpy old or just ridiculous neighbors. the previous tenant tried to commit suicide by jumping out of the window of the flat, and trelkovsky has just the time to visit her in the hospital before she dies and meet there her young and beautiful friend stella (a spectacled isabelle adjani in her first role after truffaut's 'l'histoire d'adele h.'). soon the neighbors do not seem to be what they are, it's a conspiracy to make him crazy, or to make him enter the life and role of the dead girl. he fights, tries to run, enters the game and ends by entering the circle and slowly becoming her. the circle is closed.<br /><br />it's not the most believable story we may have seen or heard, but the strength of the film does not reside in the story but in the details of the psychology, in the slow degradation of the mental state of the hero, in the permanent balancing game between reality and delusion. to a certain extent it is not what happens on the screen that matters, but how it happens, reminding the classical 'knife in the water' made more than a decade before, at the end of the polish period of polanski. there are many details that are never explained, but then this is how mystery films must be and this is actually how life is sometimes. the feeling of claustrophobia slowly contaminates the viewer. unfortunately some of the graphical details in the last part of the film are not too well executed and the english spoken dialogs (the film was made in english) almost neutralize the overall atmosphere. however, waiting for the final punch scene is very worth the patience.<br /><br />it's not the best film that polanski made, yet has many good parts, it shows the hand and the style of the director, and was a significant step in the building of his career.