riveting drama, scripted by william mastrosimone based on his stage play, in which farrah fawcett plays marjorie, attacked in her car by rapist joe (james russo). she manages to get away but the cops inform her that there is nothing they can do. she realizes, however, that joe did get her wallet and knows where she lives. when her housemates pat (alfre woodard) and terry (diana scarwid) are off at work, joe pays her a visit to finish what he started. after joe humiliates and degrades her in a variety of ways, she gets a chance to strike back at him and imprisons him. knowing full well she's in another "his word against yours" situation and that no rape technically took place, she has no intention of taking it easy on him until he confesses to pat and terry what his intentions were.<br /><br />the movie ultimately amounts to a showdown between its two opponents. as it goes on, marjorie displays such ruthlessness that one has to wonder if she hasn't become as unhinged as her nemesis. fawcett does a creditable enough job, while russo is truly excellent as the depraved creep who does his best to manipulate the situation. with only two characters on screen for much of the running time, the film has an intimate nature that does suggest that it would work even better on stage. director robert m. young doesn't shy away from the uglier and more exploitative elements of the situation; the film does become uncomfortable to watch at times. and by the time marjorie has the upper hand, things change enough so that it no longer becomes quite so easy to encourage her to go for blood, and one hopes that pat can make her see reason.<br /><br />"extremities", i felt, was a pretty good movie that at least maintained interest and a fairly high level of intensity. woodard and scarwid are both fine in support (scarwid has a great moment where terry reveals herself to be a rape victim), and the pace is consistent. granted, the dialog isn't always very sharp, but the material is compelling every step of the way.<br /><br />8/10