extremities is the disturbing, yet riveting screen version of a play by william mastriosimone (who adapted his own play for the screen) about a woman who is attacked in her car one night by a would-be rapist on her way home and is terrified when she realizes the man got her purse and knows where she lives. after her roommates leave for work the next day, the guy shows up at her home and attempts to rape her. the story takes a surprising twist when, at one point, the woman turns the tables on the man and is able to overpower him; but when she realizes there is no way that attempted rape can be proved and if the man is arrested, he will just get off, she decides to keep him prisoner in the house until she can get a confession out of him. far-fetched? maybe. disturbing? definitely, but there's a wonderfully claustrophobic feel about this film, especially the middle with just the woman and her attacker, that you can't help but feel completely a part of what's going on. i did not see the play on broadway, but i would imagine a piece like this works better onstage, but that doesn't make this film any less riveting an experience. farrah fawcett, one of the last actresses to do the role on broadway, was awarded the role of marjorie in the film version and delivers a taut and deeply moving performance as the victim who refuses to be a victim. many critics found fawcett's performance to be one-note, but for me, marjorie is a woman completely numbed by what she has been through and the performance works for me. james russo, in the performance of his career, is slimy and menacing as the would-be rapist who finds marjorie to be much more of a challenge than he assumed. alfre woodard and diana scarwid co-star as marjorie's roommates, who come home after marjorie has overpowered the guy and has him tied up and stuffed in their fireplace upon their arrival. and it's the arrival of the roommates that take the story to an unexpected level because they didn't see what we saw marjorie go through and therefore, think she should call the police and let them handle the guy. not for the faint of heart, but if you can stand it, a gripping film experience anchored by a lead performance that will surprise you.