this review owes its existence entirely to a review. we take a weekly tv magazine to see what is coming up, and duly decide what we will watch. obligingly, there are brief reviews of most of the films scheduled to be shown on the five major terrestrial channels. in addition to the prose, each film is allocated a 1-5 star rating. 5 means don't miss (superior to 4 for excellent!), down to 1 standing for poor. we have learned from vast experience that, with few exceptions, stars are awarded for gross taste, foul language, offensive content, promiscuity, horror, blood & guts, and especially killing off the hero/heroine just when everyone was about to live happily ever after. (if that isn't done, the movie is denigrated as being 'predictable' - the worst insult imaginable!)<br /><br />brave new girl was given only 1 star, thereby suggesting it was a candidate worthy of our time and attention. this was confirmed by the reviewer's description of the movie as being a "truly awful tale", and, "stupid, just stupid". we watched it, and my wife and i were glad we did so. the tv magazine reviewer further stated that the movie was "not a reworking of war and peace", with which we have to agree. reading through the imdb reviews for this title a day or two later, the urge to pick up my pen (so to speak) to add my halfpennyworth (pronounced harf'pen'uth (emphasis on the first syllable) for the uninitiated) became overwhelming.<br /><br />why did we take to this movie? well, it's just a matter of taste. we like attractive characters, believable relationships between them, interesting situations, courtesy and respect, good triumphing over evil, and so on. we liked the integrity and personalities of holly (lindsey haun), her mum (virginia madsen), ditz (barbara mamabolo), grant (nick roth), zoe (joanne boland) and the two male professors involved in the story. so what if the storyline includes a 'wicked witch of the west' in the form of angela (barbara mamabolo), provided that she plays the part with some conviction. we appreciated the friendship depicted between the two room-mates, with one having a financially challenged upbringing by a loving single mum, and the other having every material advantage but receiving little parental time and affection. is it any wonder that ditz felt the way she did about holly's mum? is it surprising that grant should take an immediate interest in holly, considering the manner of their initial meeting, holly's dazzling smiles and her lively self-possession? i think these issues and the events are believable enough, but it is necessary to pretend that the scholarship and other circumstances are realistic in order for the tale to have a setting.<br /><br />my wife and i are greatly blessed by not having any significant musical education. this enables us to enjoy the sounds produced by instruments and voices without having our critical faculties intruding unduly on our listening, and thus spoiling the experience. we enjoyed both the classical pieces and the pop, which came over well on the tv, and we weren't struck by any lack of talent. also, it mattered not that holly's classical vocals were dubbed by someone else.<br /><br />we enjoyed the movie enough to look for a dvd. the average delivered price we have paid per disk for the movies in our collection currently stands at lb4.9484 (rounded to four decimal places). brave new girl was available from a trusted supplier on the amazon marketplace for lb1.3516 (rounded to four decimal places) above this figure. such a purchase would increase the average. why i should resent this is a mystery to me, but it is a testimony to our enjoyment of this film that we placed an order anyway. i have awarded this film 7 imdb stars out of ten, having docked one for overenthusiastic reception of the performances by the audiences, one for britney advertising and one for something else i can't remember right now. (in case it hasn't tumbled, this review is an anthem in celebration of the use of brackets!)