definitely spoilers in this review! i **adore** american gothic and have done since i first saw it late at night when it first aired on ch4 in the uk when i was 14. the comparisons made to stephen king are just about right. it's small town supernatural eeriness but with fantastic layered characters. best of all, and the reason i love it so much, is it had the guts to never be black and white! lucas buck though lacking any conscience often works by, as he says, giving people enough rope to hang themselves with. his manipulation only works because of other people's weak morals. caleb though generally a thoughtful, kind, insightful boy can at times show the latent dark side inherited from his father. none of the characters are wholly good or bad with even the angelic merlyn showing a wrathful side through reckless vengeance in the plague sower. not only that but having gail, the closest thing to a mother figure for caleb, not only sleep with but fall in love with lucas despite all she knows made me realise this show would just go there and not apologise for it. i'm a huge buffy fan, but when that show tried to go really 'dark' in later seasons it failed miserably because it lost it's humorous side and didn't commit fully to its ideas. ag shows that you can have a morally bankrupt character right at the heart of the show, and still have a hell of laugh doing it.<br /><br />i can't even think about why it was cancelled as i'll just get too angry at the ridiculousness of it all. so much rubbish on tv and good, original shows get kicked around and stamped on. thanks to the emergence of dvd at least i can see the show in it's entirety! yes some of the visuals look dated now, but the creepy strange atmosphere is provided well enough by the story lines. the actors also all give such perfect performances that it more than makes up for some odd camera work.<br /><br />the only reason why i think someone may not like this show is that it isn't like the x-files where there are cases to 'solve' or lost where there's huge unanswered questions. it's pretty obvious from the get go that lucas buck has some kind of evil powers, and that the show is all about fighting for caleb's soul. so this show might frustrate people looking for a purpose or an unknown 'truth' to find. yes there are some mysterious unanswered aspects, with some such as the truth about gails parents getting resolved, but unlike lost and x-files this show isn't about trying to find out more 'facts' about what's going on imo. it's all about the characters and the way they have to confront moral choices in the twisted world of trinity. personally i would just get such a kick out of seeing lucas turn every situation to his advantage.<br /><br />all in all the main thing i have to say is check it out. i'm pretty certain most fantasy/horror fans will love it. also even though it got cancelled all characters have arcs and there is enough in the finale to give some small sense of closure. the only hanging thread i felt was dr matt. having him not be in the final episodes is strange. <br /><br />i would have done anything for a second season, but at least the full 22 episodes exist and perhaps given how brainless some tv execs appear to be i should be glad this wonderful show got made at all!!!