just saying you've got a movie about john holmes is a guarantee to get some folks in front of the screen, but writer/director james cox delivers oh so much more. a "rashamon" of the sleazy hollywood set, the film splitters the july 1981 wonderland murders through a variety of angles (and film stocks), but mostly through the filter of john holmes' coked out weasel brain. in a film full of bad guys holmes is either the most vile, the most pathetic or both. several versions of the story emerge and merge as cox flashes jump cuts and twisting title cards amid effects and emoting. the dialogue is fast and naturalistic and never once rings false. while the film takes places two years after holmes had fallen out of porn and into a truly wicked drug fueled depravity, kilmer relentlessly exudes a sexuality so intense it can be measured in inches. this sexuality at its edges creates a sense of foreboding that hangs over the entire film almost as heavily as the violence at its center. those murders are teased at through the whole film though are never clearly shown, not even at the climax,though the violence of them relentlessly infuses the whole picture and much blood is splattered across walls and crime scene photos. once again val kilmer as holmes shows he can act wacko better than anyone else working. strutting, cringing, bragging or begging, kilmer is constantly in character and the character is constantly a fascinating car wreck. stand out performances beside kilmer definitely include ted levine as the lead cop in the investigation and lisa kudrow as holmes estranged wife. the trio of criminals holmes falls in with include the frighteningly high energy josh lucas, the ever interesting timothy blake nelson and an absolutely unrecognizable dylan mcdermott in a pivotal role as the teller yet another version of the murders. cox suggests that no matter how much we learn about wonderland, there is always a worse version possible, but looking through the debauchery surrounding it is much more fascinating than understanding the truth.