just got my copy of this dvd two disc set and while not perfect, i found the overall experience to be a fun way to waste some time. i have to say right up front that i am a huge fan of zombie movies, and i truly think that the fine people who made these films must be too. i also have a soft spot for people who are trying, sometimes against all odds, to live a dream. and again, these people are doing it. is this some award-winning collection of amazing film? no. not even close. but for what they do on their meager budgets, these films should be recommended. for me, the bottom line is always, was i entertained? did i have a good time with this movie? and here the answer to both was "yes." the first in the series is also the most raw. it opens with some kind of accident at a nuclear facility and people melt down or something. cut to some years later and a new housing community is built over the old reactor site. some kids making a video fall into a hole and find themselves trapped in the bottom levels of the facility. they get rescued, but the hole is not sealed and the people from the opening start lumbering out of the hole. soon, the whole town is overtaken by the undead. and these zombies are fun. they go from cool rot makeup to the cheapest slap on white-face ever, but they are fun. the whole movie culminates in a showdown between the final survivors of the area and the undead, with our heroes going into the reactor's lower levels to take out the flesh eating zombies and seal the hole forever! pretty cheesy, but i think it was meant to be. still, it moves very fast, has buckets of gruesome effects and really tries to have some style. the acting is uneven, but a few good performances shine through and one really should listen to the commentary track. i went back and watched it again with that on and found it to be a good bit of information on the trials and fun that the crew and cast experienced on the movie. director todd sheets seems pretty proud of this, his first film, but also has no delusions. he knows it's a trashy zombie movie, but he does show respect to people involved. also, sheets has a great sense of humor and some humble integrity that others could learn from in the movie field. the behind the scenes of zombie bloodbath is pretty fun as well. i felt it was almost as entertaining as the film it was made for. there are some great interviews and behind the scenes footage, mixed with news stories about the film from some major places like cnn, fox and mtv. over all, a fun little film that is very rough around the edges, but still had me laughing and enjoying the ride! i have seen many dv films, and some shot of video films, and many are quite dull, but this one really wasn't. while newer dv films are technically superior, they just aren't fun! overall, this is a solid, if a bit flawed, release with plenty of extras and tons of gore and splatter. while not breaking any grand rules of move making, i found the series to be fun and always a laugh, so i give this set a solid recommendation. todd sheets was not trying to make award winning art here folks, he was trying, sometimes against all odds it seems, to make fun zero budget, splattery horror and to that end, he has succeeded in spades.