so, todd sheets once stated that he considers his 1993, shot-on-video z-epic, zombie bloodbath to be his first feature film. anyone who's ever seen a little beauty called zombie rampage knows exactly how untrue that statement is. i mean, what makes this one that much more superior? well, then again, zombie rampage doesn't include that mullet guy, now does it? <br /><br />for one to comprehend exactly why zombie bloodbath is actually considered worth a damn, one must remember what the 90's were like for lovers of bad horror. a decade that all but said goodbye to b and z-cinema as we knew it. technological advances, awkward trends, and the internet would abolish the mysterious charms of the s.o.v.'s big-boxed golden years. and anything remotely resembling quality schlock was all too self-aware for it's own good, basically defeating the purpose. luckily, not everyone changes with the times. enter zombie bloodbath.<br /><br />and i guess this is the part where i explain the same exact premise from 500 other zombie flicks from the last 40 years. alright, so, some kind of accident at a nuclear plant infects everyone in sight, turning them into flesh-eating zombies, who go on a rampage, inflicting some of the most gruesome, yet humorous gore-scenes of the 90's. the first 20 minutes are cluttered with the most awkward-sounding conversations you could imagine. conversations that let you know that this isn't just a low-budget zombie flick, this is a z-grade disasterpiece, fella. plenty hysterical, non-existent acting to go around, and that goes triple for mr. mullet. that guy is truly the highlight of the night.<br /><br />the fact that todd sheets seriously considers zombie bloodbath to be that superior to zombie rampage, amuses me to no end. i mean really, both are complete jokes on celluloid, but then again, so is redneck zombies, so, obviously todd sheets is in the company of awsomeness. by 1993, a movie this bad would no doubt, be a full-blast spoof, but mr. sheets stands his ground, giving us some good old fashion schlock, the way it was meant to be, unaware, clueless, and pointless. god bless todd sheets. for anyone seeking surprisingly worthwhile 90's b-horror, leif jonker's darkness should be at the top of your list. as for zombie bloodbath, if you're a gorehound who got bored sometime around 1990, then '93 would be the perfect time to pick up. 8/10