there is not much more i can say about this movie than all of the commentaries on page one, except - as jesse says - "it's the berries". all of page one's commentators wrote eloquently - as almost so as the dialog is in this movie. this just may be one of those illusive things we hear so much about, but usually are made so by the actors who deliver the lines: a beautiful script. maybe robert redford did hold strict sway onto the actors/actresses during the filming of this movie, so that the beauty of the story would not get lost.<br /><br />i, too, attended church when i was very young and into my late teens. the church's pastor spoke very eloquently and quietly as the rev. maclean did in his church. that, in itself, is a totally different picture that is portrayed of southern baptist churches - no holy-rollering in my church. it was a big church, with many different programs to keep its congregation busy - the most inspiring perhaps was the music-department with its huge choir and almost classical anthems. too, the sunday evening-congregation was almost entirely younger people. are you even aware it was once safe to go to church on sunday night? how i wish it still was ! watching "a river runs through it" is very much like going to hear a beautiful sermon in a church whose members are fully involved in life. as has already been so beautifully written, the sermon for this movie is the open-space beauties of montana - yet, aren't there also missile-silos there, too? fly-fishing or any other activity which draws family-members closer together for a happy life - and deep understanding of one another - becomes a blessing. although you see some of the shadier aspects of life then, too, the simplicity of the story paints a lasting impression on your heart, if you let it. speakeasies and prostitutes are counter-balanced by the simple gatherings of old-fashioned, community picnics as this movie contains - in heavy contrasts to modern families taking their kids to disney land for screeching joyrides and calling it "a day together". there is noting wrong with that, but as "river" demonstrates, some of its taciturn beauty could do nothing but make life richer. this is the third film i've seen in which tom skeritt (?) plays a father, all different styles and brilliantly acted.<br /><br />brad pitt, mostly an undiscovered talent except for "thelma and louise" and "meet joe black", and all of the cast-members deserved many awards. little stories superbly told will get 10-of-10 from me over any movie with violence, foul language, ugliness and "action". i am thinking particularly of "crash" and most of "arnold's" movies. what a savior for peace this movie is.