saps at sea is evidently a pun on a gary cooper film, souls at sea. the title aptly describes the starring team, stan laurel and oliver hardy. who go on an ocean voyage to soothe ollie's nerves only to run into escaped killer nick grainger. as played by rychard cramer, this criminal is both amusing and chilling, making him a fine foil for the boys' comedic characters. despite his powerful presence, cramer never upstages the boys, a tribute to stan and ollie's beguiling charisma. that is as it should be, since the boys are supposed to be the protagonists in this film.<br /><br />such is the charm of laurel and hardy's personas that they elevate average material. for saps at sea has its slow spots. for instance, as a previous commentator has noted, a bit where a doctor (the delightfully flustered james finlayson) tries a balloon called "lung tester" on ollie, lacks punch. the scenario is very episodic, with the first part, taking place in the boys' apartment, almost completely unrelated to the second part where they go off to sea. but on the whole, the film is highly pleasant entertainment with a sufficiently brief running time so that it doesn't wear out it's welcome.<br /><br />there's a certain poignancy viewing the final collaboration between laurel and hardy and producer hal roach. i haven't seen all of laurel and hardy's post-1940 films but those that i have seen don't measure up to even the weakest hal roach products. in these later movies, laurel and hardy seem to be in an alien environment, deprived of such colorful supporting players like finlayson and charlie hall and marvin hately and leroy shield's sprightly musical scores. they also aren't the well-meaning and optimistic bumblers we know and love but in the later films, are either exasperating blockheads or pathetic misfits.<br /><br />it is a pity that many hal roach laurel and hardy films are now generally unavailable to the public. even in a minor entry like saps at sea, one can see that laurel and hardy were great comedians. this was because hal roach, for the most part, allowed stan laurel, the guiding force behind the team, complete artistic freedom. once laurel lost his autonomy at other studios, the team lost much of its uniqueness.