spider-man is in my opinion the best superhero ever, and this game is the best superhero game ever. while it may be somewhat easy, you have to play it several times to get all the costumes and comic book covers, which makes up for how easy it is to get through the game. it may seem hard to control at first, but once you get the hang of it, you will be web-slinging like spider-man himself.<br /><br />the bosses, while like the levels are somewhat easy, are fun. the first boss, scorpion, is incredibly easy to beat, which shouldn't be so because as fans of the comic books know, scorpion is one of spider-man's most deadly villains. the second boss, rhino, is also very easy. the 3rd boss is venom, who is in my opinion the easiest boss in the game, which definately shouldn't be. the 4th boss is venom again. this time, he is a little bit more difficult to beat but still easy. the 5th boss is mysterio, who i think is the funnest boss to battle in the game. he is also one of the harder bosses, but once again, still fairly easy. next boss is carnage, who is, you guessed it, easy to beat. but carnage is actually kind of fun to fight. 7th boss is doctor octopus, who is like all the other bosses easy, but not as easy as the other ones because he has a shield. the 8th and final boss is exclusive to the game, never in a comic book or cartoon. i won't spoil it for you for those of you who haven't played the game, but the boss is the only boss in the game that isn't too easy. took me 4 or 5 tries to beat while the others i beat on the first or second tries.<br /><br />all in all, a very good game. i gave it an 8 out of 10. the reasons why i didn't give it a 9 or 10 are that once you get all the costumes and comic book covers it gets kind of boring (getting all that stuff will take a while though), it is not very accurate according to the comic books or cartoon show, the bosses are too easy, and they should have used hobgoblin and/or green goblin as a boss, i think it would be fun to battle someone flying around in the air! they didn't use them in the sequel to this game either! well the green goblin is the villain in the upcoming spider-man movie, so hopefully they will make a video game based on the movie.