after finally watching walt disney's song of the south on myspace, i decided to watch ralph bakshi's response to that movie-coonskin-on afro video which i linked from google video. in this one, during the live-action sequences, preacherman (charles gordone) takes his friend sampson (barry white) with him to pick up pappy (scatman crothers) and randy (philip thomas, years before he added michael for his middle name professionally) as the latter two escape from prison. during their attempt, pappy tells randy a tale of brother rabbit (voice of thomas), brother bear (white), and preacher fox (gordone) and their adventures in harlem. as expected in many of these bakshi efforts, there's a mix of animation and live-action that provides a unique point-of-view from the writer/director that is sure to offend some people. another fascinating animated character is miss america who's a big-as in gigantic in every way-white blonde woman dressed in skin-tight red, white, and blue stars and stripes who has a hold on a little black man and has him shot in one of the most sexually violent ways that was shockingly funny to me! there are plenty of such scenes sprinkled throughout the picture of which another one concerning brother bear's frontal anatomy also provided big laughs from me. there's also a segment of a woman telling her baby of a "cockroach" she was friends with who left her that was touching with that part seeming to be a tribute to the comic strip artist george herriman. i was also fascinated hearing grover washington jr.'s version of "ain't no sunshine" heard as part of the score. most compelling part of the picture was seeing the scatman himself depicted with his head in silhouette during the opening credit sequence singing and scatting to a song that has him using the n-word in a satirical way. when i saw a vhs cover of this movie years ago, it had depicted brother rabbit in insolent mode in front of what looked like the warner circles with the slogan, "this movie will offend everybody". that is ample warning to anyone who thinks all cartoons are meant for children. that said, i definitely recommend coonskin to fans of bakshi and of every form of animation.