there's a legion of mick garris haters out there who feel he couldn't direct a horror film of quality if he had to. and, sleepwalkers(..screenplay written by stephen king)is often used as an example of this. i like sleepwalkers, though i fully am aware that garris just says f#ck it and lets all hell break loose about fifteen or so minutes into the movie. forget character or plot development, who needs them anyway. it's about violent mayhem and bloody carnage as a mother and son pair of "sleepwalkers"(..feline-human shapeshifting creatures who suck the lifeforce from virginal female innocents, moving from town to town, living a nomadic existence, truly powerful)set their sights on a teenager who doesn't surrender without a fight. before all is said and done, many will be slaughtered as a mother shan't tolerate the possible death of her beloved son.<br /><br />garris wastes little time setting up those to be executed, as a teacher(glenn shadix), suspecting handsome, all american charmer charles brady(brian krause)to be someone entirely different from who he claims, gets his hand ripped off and his neck torn into. charles lures pretty virgins into his arms, drawing their energy, in turn "feeding" his hungry mama, mary(alice krige). the fresh new target is tanya robertson(m"adchen amick), and she seems to be easy pickens, but this will not be the case and when charles is seriously injured in a struggle(..thanks to a deputy's cat, clovis), mary's vengeance will be reaped on all those who get her way. mary, come hell or high water, will retrieve tanya in the goal of "refreshing" her dying son.<br /><br />like many teenagers, i had a crush on certain actresses i watched in movies. such as amy dolenz, i was smitten with m"adchen amick. she's simply adorable in this movie and i love how she bites her lower lip displaying an obvious attraction towards charles, unaware of his ulterior motives. i just knew that m"adchen amick would be destined to be a scream queen, but this would never be the case. too bad because i would've welcomed her in the genre with open arms.<br /><br />krige is yummy as the menacing, damn sexy, but vicious and mean bitch who wipes out an entire police force and poor tanya's parents in one fail swoop, in less than ten or so minutes. she stabs one in the back with a corn cob! she bites the fingers off of poor ron perlman, before cracking his arm(..a bone protruding), knocking him unconscious with his own elbow! she tosses tanya's mom through a window after breaking a rose vase over her father's face! a deputy is stabbed in his ear by charles(cop-kebab!), falling on the pencil for extra impact. poor tanya is dragged by her hair from her home by mary, driven to the brady home, and forced into an impromptu dance with the crippled monster! the sheriff is hurled onto a picket fence and we see how cats combat the sleepwalkers unlike humans. we see mary and charles' abilities to "dim" themselves and his car using a power of invisibility. writer stephen king even finds time to include himself and horror director buddies of his in a crime scene sequence with clive barker and tobe hooper as forensics officers, joe dante and john landis as photograph experts.<br /><br />the film is shot in a tongue-in-cheek, let-it-all-hang-out manner with music appropriately hammering this technique home. it's about the ultra-violence, simple as that, with some deranged behavior and jet black humor complimenting garris' direction and king's screenplay. the incestuous angle of the sleepwalkers is a bit jarring and in-your-face. without a lick of complexity, this is closer in vein to king's own demented maximimum overdrive than his more serious works.