trick or treat is a fine example of hollywood jumping on the "backwards messages in metal music" bandwagon that tipper gore and her washington wives kick-started in the mid-'80s (other, less successful entries in this mini-genre include the awful black roses and silly the gate). i was a sophomore in high school when trick or treat came out and couldn't wait to see it. it seemed to disappear from video stores by the end of the '80s, but i finally picked up a budget-priced dvd copy a short while ago and it brought back many pleasant metal memories from back in the day. any teenage metal nerd could relate to the trials of eddie "ragman" weinbauer (marc price of "family ties")in this film as he is persecuted by the preppie "beautiful" people in his high school for his heavy metal fashions and musical taste. eddie's favorite rock star is sammi curr (who looks a lot like tommy lee of motley crue), who is killed in a hotel fire early in the movie. eddie is inconsolable till he receives a test pressing of sammi's final, unreleased album from a radio dj (gene simmons of kiss in a brief cameo). eddie soon discovers that this lp, when played backwards, allows him to communicate with the undead spirit of sammi curr himself! soon sammi is giving eddie advice on how to get even with his preppie torturers but when the messages escalate in scariness ("waste'em all... no false metal!") eddie tries to destroy the album, which results in sammi coming back to life via eddie's stereo speakers. sammi rampages to the big dance at eddie's high school and takes the stage to rock the crowd and disintegrate a few unlucky "false metallers" before eddie arrives to save the day and the girl of his dreams. (sigh) no, it's not terribly scary in 2006, it wasn't even scary in 1986, but trick or treat is a movie that will bring a smile to the face of any 1980s metaller and has a kick-ass soundtrack courtesy of the cult band fastway. well worth seeking out if you've ever banged your head or have a taste for b-grade horror movies (or both, like me).