students often ask me why i choose this version of othello. shakespeare's text is strongly truncated and the film contains material which earned it an "r" rating.<br /><br />i have several reasons for using this production: first, i had not seen a depiction of the moor that actually made me sympathetic to othello until i saw fishburne play him. i saw james earl jones and christopher plummer play othello and iago on broadway, and it was wonderful. plummer's energy was especially noticeable. but in spite of jone's incredible presence both physically and vocally, the character he played just seemed too passive to illicit from me a complete emotional purgation in the aristotelian sense. jones, in fact, affirmed what i felt when in an interview he noted that he had played othello as passive--seeing iago as basically doing him over. unfortunately this sapped my grief for the character destruction. thus, i felt sympathy for jone's moor but not the horror over his corruption by an evil man. in contrast, fishburne's othello is a strong and vigorous figure familiar with taking action. thus, iago's temptation to actively deal with what is presented to othello as his wife's unfaithfulness is a perversion of the general's positive quality to be active not passive.1 the horror of the story is that this good quality in othello becomes perverted. fishburne's depiction is therefore classically tragic.<br /><br />second, fishburne is the first black actor to play othello in a film. both orsen wells and anthony hopkins did fine film versions, but they were white men in black face.2 why is this important? why should a black actor be the black man on the stage?3 certainly in shakespeare's day they used black face just as they used boys to make girls. perhaps then, the reason is the same. female actors bring a special quality to female roles on the shakespearian stage because they understand best what shakespeare's genius was trying to present. a gifted black actor should play the moor because his experience in a white dominated culture is vital to understanding what shakespeare's genius recognized: the pain of being marginalized because of race. an important theme in othello is isolation caused by racism. although it is a mistake to insert american racism into a shakespearian play, there can be little doubt that racism is still working among the characters. many, including desdimona's father, think that a union between a venetian white christian woman and a north african black christian man is unnatural.<br /><br />third, shakespeare was never g rated. he never has been. his stage productions were always typified by violence and strong language. but shakespeare's genius uses these elements not as sensationialism but for artistic honesty.