all i can say about the necromaniac/schizophreniac 2 series is... if you are even remotely "pc" or don't have a seriously messed up sense of humor, then you probably wont get it. as sick and disgusting as this movie is, it really is a comedy and not a "horror" movie at all. if you can appreciate somebody who pushes the bounds of good taste and political correctness to the most extreme limits imaginable, to the point where is becomes so out of hand that it's comical, then you must see this to believe it. this movie is so out of control that a major film studio couldn't touch this with a 10 foot pole (with a condom on the end). in my opinion though, the best, most extreme pieces of art come from way underground. if you don't stick to the same old formula that people are used to seeing, then they reject it.<br /><br />i have seen stacks of terrible, boring, z-grade, indy movies that were just a waste of a perfectly good vhs tape or dvd-r. i have also seen stacks of stink bombs coming from the big named studios that were a complete waste of millions of dollars. when a no budget film like these two from ron atkins/john giancaspro come out and blow all of the other "shock" films completely out of the water, you really have to take a second look at the whole indy movie scene. after seeing this, you can really see how much freedom an indy film maker can have when they work on their own.<br /><br />the funny thing is, even the other people who saw this movie and "hated it" admit to the fact that they laughed all the way through it. i don't think that is is possible for anybody to get bored watching either of these two. so if don't take everything that you seen in the mainstream media too seriously, and are able to laugh at a misanthropic, puppet wielding psychopath who has finally snapped, you have to see this. you may just be able to see it for the stand alone, cult classic that it is. both schizophreniac / schizophreniac 2 are among the favorites in my collection of well over 1000 dvds.