perhaps i would have liked this film more if i wasn't so attached to the characters in henry fool. to those who've never seen henry fool, i wouldn't worry. as hartley jokingly said in his introduction to the film at tiff, the film has lots of exposition and explanations.<br /><br />this film is very heavy in plot, which keeps the film moving. there are many humorous moments and the film certainly has hartley's trademark humour and rhythm of dialogue. over all, a technically well made film and sure to satisfy new fans of hartley who are just beginning explore his work. as for the older fans who loved his earlier works like trust and amateur, this film could go either way. i have mixed feelings about the film and hartley's later films in general. what hartley does best is setting his stories in small situations, focusing on the intimate and idiosyncratic ways in which his characters interact with each other. since his late 90s and onward, his films have widened in scope in terms of subject matter. mass media in no such thing, religion in the book of life and now terrorism in fay grim. i don't know if hartley's talents are suited to such big subject matter or if he's able to do it justice.<br /><br />strangely enough, the film can still be reduced to intimate relationships, a simple love story about a woman who goes to seek out the husband she loves. the only problem is, i've seen henry fool and everyone seems incredibly out of character in this film. you can tell this film was written long after henry fool was finished without any intention of a sequel. somehow, the terrorist plot feels conveniently tacked on through the use of henry's books of confessions as a macguffin (in the hitchcockian sense). fay's motivations for finding henry seemed motivated purely by the needs of the plot rather than what being faithful to who fay was as person in henry fool.<br /><br />i guess i'm slightly disappointed in the film because it's not true to the characters in the henry fool and it doesn't exactly work as a straight ahead thriller. there's too much irony and wryness in hartley's approach to such as big topic as terrorism. it somehow works and doesn't work at the same time. all i could say, you would either love or hate the film depending on your take on hartley's work and how well you know hartley's work. fans of henry fool, be severely warned for a disappointment. for the rest, welcome to the world of hal hartley and enjoy the ride.