fay grim is, on its face, a tale of espionage and intrigue told with a nod and a wink. as the sequel to his extraordinary henry fool, hal hartley creates a surprising blend of film noir and hardboiled spy thriller that starts with a knowing smile and large dose of laughter and turns as poignant and warm as any film i've seen this year.<br /><br />parkey posey is fay grim, an unwitting mata hari caught between the love of her exiled husband henry fool and the questionable intentions of a charming cia operative. as agent fulbright, jeff goldblum is a master of wit and sarcasm, in a role that seems tailored to his talents. he has never been better. james urbaniak is fay's brother simon, jailed but renowned for his wildly popular books of poetry. his love of his work and his sister brings a jolt of passion to contrast the dour nature of the spies which eventually populate fay's world. and liam aiken is fay's oversexed 14 year-old son. although that may be redundant. aiken's understated style is remarkably "old soul" for someone his age.<br /><br />the entire film is shot dutch angle, the off-kilter style made famous by orson welles and used primarily in horror films and psychological thrillers to impart a sense of foreboding. in fay grim, using that style from opening credits to closing is intriguing at first, deceptively clever the next. for just as the viewer begins to fall for the perfectly timed comedic elements and wit of hartley's brilliant script, something happens. the film takes a dark yet strangely comforting turn as these characters magically become sympathetic before our eyes. what began as dark comedy morphs into romantic drama, and the transition is masterful. slow pacing gives way to breathtaking action, and we are sucked right into the vortex.<br /><br />in the end, hartley's sharp dialog combined with the amazing performances of a perfectly matched ensemble cast makes for a delicious cinematic cocktail. told with the luxury of one able to write, produce, direct, edit, and even compose the music, hal hartley has crafted a smart, sexy tale of espionage with tongue just barely planted in cheek. fay grim is one part dashiell hammett, one part raymond chandler, and one part ian fleming, shaken and maybe stirred as well.