if hollywood is to be believed, being in the the navy is nothing but a bludge. though the sailors may complain in chorus about the monotony of the ocean, it seems that their oceanic duties are completely non-existent, and somehow fred astaire finds enough free time during the day to offer dancing classes to a fleet of would-be romantics. such is the world of astaire and rogers. mark sandrich's previous film, 'top hat (1935),' completely ignored the great depression that was then bringing america to its knees, and presented audiences with a glittering world of the rich and famous; it was the film's optimistic outlook on life that perhaps contributed to its success. likewise, here sandrich deliberately forgets that the life of a naval officer is difficult and draining, and instead substitutes the duties of a sailor with an assortment of catchy lightweight musical numbers.<br /><br />"bake" baker (astaire) and sherry martin (rogers) are two former dance partners whose romantic relationship fell apart after the latter rejected a marriage proposal. after bake returns from several years of duty in the navy, he finds sherry as dance hostess in an unsophisticated san francisco ballroom. while the two former lovers alternately attempt to woo and rebuff each other, sherry's plain, music-teacher sister (harriet hilliard, looking really quite pretty) receives a complete makeover and tries to charm superficial sailor bilge "bilgey" smith (randolph scott). there are plenty of the usual screwball comedy shenanigans, a few moments of mistaken identity, and even a hilarious trained monkey that steals every scene it's in. particularly amusing is the scene in which bake sabotages a performer's audition in order to create a window for his estranged girl; unluckily for both of them, it is an unfortunate sherry who drinks the bicarbonate of soda and loses her ability to sing.<br /><br />'follow the fleet (1936)' was the fifth winning collaboration between fred astaire and ginger rogers, and the third (of five) in which sandrich directed the pair. irving berlin provided the film's music and lyrics, and each musical number is enjoyably lighthearted and entertaining, even if they aren't quite as memorable as those in 'top hat (1935),' 'swing time (1936)' or 'shall we dance (1937).' astaire attempts to break free from his typical rich-man-about-town persona, without much success, but it's hard to imagine the performer without the boyish carefree charm that could only accompany being considerably wealthy. the side-plot of the romance between connie and bilge works well with the antics of the two main stars, and harriet hilliard (wearing a brunette wig to avoid clashing with ginger's blonde hair) has a couple of emotional solo numbers, including "get thee behind me satan," which was originally written for 'top hat.'