cosimo (luis guzman) ends up in prison for car burglary and there he's given the plan for the perfect heist from a lifer in prison; so he has to get out of jail, fast. he tells his girlfriend rosalind (patricia clarkson) to find a man who will do his time in prison for some money. but no one wants to do the time for cosimo's crime and yet everybody seems to know a guy who will do that. soon bad boxer pero mahalovic (sam rockwell) founds out the details of this so called "perfect job".<br /><br />first of all, i think this movie was very funny and from my point of view i would recommend it to everyone. this movie is remake of italian comedy "i soliti ignoti". i didn't watch the italian original so i cannot judge or compare those two movies. but "welcome to collinwood" is great comedy for itself, about four people trying to rob the money from the vault in one house. everyone gave their part of brilliance from this movie cast. really excellent movie for these actors: sam rockwell, william h. macy (great), isaiah washington, michael jeter (great), luis guzm'an, patricia clarkson, jennifer esposito and finally george clooney gave their share in this project. <br /><br />maybe to say that this movie is only comedy, isn't fair. this is more then that. because of one difference. all of thieves in this movie have very small wishes when they are asked: what will they do with their money? it is mostly securing their future in very humble way. this fact goes beyond comedy into the soul of that criminals. and not only them but also cop babitch, who is presented like corrupted one; so here directors russo presents us fact that criminals and cop are the same. actually all in collinwood are; and not only in collinwood, cause all people chase money, on legal or illegal way. i don't like all movies were audience eventually likes and cheers for thieves. but, this one is exception. you have to love them all. riley with his little baby and wife in jail. toto with his pants. cosimo with his line: "your mother's a whore!" and all others. they are just like characters in my favorite comic, alan ford. they all trying to make some money, but simply they are out of luck. but they all did one good deed: they gave money to riley, so he can get his wife out of prison. they are all heroes in my eyes, cause lots of "honest" people wouldn't do that.