since my third or fourth viewing some time ago, i've abstained from la maman et la putain while i wait for the dvd. in the meantime, i've read the french screenplay as well as alain philippon's monograph on jean eustache. the latter ends with a frustrating filmography, eleven films, fiction, doc, and in-between, impossible to see or, in the cases of mes petites amoureuses and le p`ere no"el..., re-see.<br /><br />a few questions that hit me this moment: polish v'eronika's french is plenty colloquial (un maximum d' "un maximum d'"). even so, does she have an accent? i think i can tell she does. what does the absence of color add, especially at the single spot the fringe of the city is glimpsed? how does this fringe differ from the sleep and journey that separates worlds of the tempest and the winter's tale? ditto alphaville. we may imagine the elapsed years since have done it, but does eustache deliberately circumscribe the film's milieu? is this an enchanted isle? is alexandre's a fairy tale? alexandre's always choreographing himself, worrying about how or where to stand or walk, what to say when, announcing these decisions to who have to care less than he does what he does. or is this his way of trying to choreograph others by doing it to himself? how different is he from vertigo's scottie? (i say, i think, very.) what's the difference, and is there one, between eustache's l'eaud, and truffaut's, and godard's? how different is the present l'eaud? isn't he still doing it, whatever it is, in recent roles, irma vep, le pornographe, whatever, approaching old age? once i arrived early for one in a series of mostly antoine doinel (l'eaud's character) truffaut films. for a long while, every three or five minutes, down the aisle would come a twenty-something male in scarf, tweedy coat, l'eaud hair, with a direction-seeking nose. i have no idea whether this was conscious or unconscious mimicry. i was that age, but have no idea what i myself looked like then. no scarf, at least. i do have a brother, though, who seems to have learned his carriage from bresson.