still the definitive program about the second world war, the world at war isn't just long, but also very informative. the series contains 26 episodes (each episode lasts for about 45 min.), and includes the events leading up to and following in the wake of the war. most episodes are about the war in europe, and there are several episodes about the war in the pacific. other episodes include information about the wars in africa, burma, the atlantic and the home fronts of germany, great britain, united states and soviet union. there is one episode that's dedicated to the holocaust. the series starts off with the episode a new germany (1933-1939), and tells about the rise of the nazis in germany and german territorial gains prior to the outbreak of war. the series ends with the episode remember; the war's influence in a post-war world. remember is a fitting episode to end this great program. every episode begins with a short introduction and then with opening credits. the credits are accompanied by a powerful music theme. there are many fitting music pieces throughout the series. each episode is like a mini-film. the footage is fantastic, and so is the way it was put together. in addition, some of the footage is in color. the information included also makes the episodes memorable and entertaining.<br /><br />the series was produced by jeremy isaacs for thames television (uk). commissioned in 1969, it took four years to produce, such was the depth of its research. the series was narrated by laurence olivier (one of the most famous and revered actors of the 20th century). the series interviewed leading members of the allied and axis campaigns, including eyewitness accounts by civilians, enlisted men, officers and politicians, amongst them albert speer, karl donitz, jimmy stewart, bill mauldin, curtis lemay, lord mountbatten, alger hiss, toshikazu kase, arthur harris, charles sweeney, paul tibbets, traudl junge and historian stephen ambrose. jeremy isaacs says in "the making of the world at war" that he sought to interview, not necessarily the surviving big names, but their aides and assistants. the most difficult subject to locate and persuade to be interviewed, according to isaacs, was heinrich himmler's adjutant, karl wolff. the latter admitted to witnessing a large-scale execution in himmler's presence.<br /><br />the world at war is often considered to be the definitive television history of the second world war. some consider it the finest example of the documentary form. in a list of the 100 greatest british television programmes drawn up by the british film institute in 2000, voted for by industry professionals, the world at war ranked 19th. the program has everything that the viewer needs to know about the war. after watching a few episodes i liked the series so much that i tried to watch the remaining episodes one after the other. i've seen some of them several times. there are two other great documentary series that i know of that may be of interest to the viewer. one is called the great war (1964) that's about world war i. the other is called cold war (1998) that's about the cold war obviously.