every second of the film is gorgeous. and that's why it earns a 7, because the plot is not especially devious, and thinking back over the last 90 minutes i never really felt any excitement or investment in the characters. if anything, the luxurious graphics and framing have made certain scenes (the car chase, for instance) more pedestrian than they ought to be - not that they don't look lovely and have some very original design and occasionally novel camera angles - but they are missing the kinetic movement and close-up shots that are part of the language for any normal action/thriller. the first hour plods along, and the dialogue feels very edited and a bit stagey - people wait for each other to finish and don't always react in a natural cadence, which would be a problem of recording each individual's dialogue separately. on rare occasions the emotions in the voices don't quite match those on screen; something that should really have been avoided. the futuristic architecture is very attractive (lots of glass walls/ceilings/screens, lovely smoke/mirage/special effects) and nice-looking cars, but again - it's more an exercise in graphic design, having no real impact on the story. i'd argue that the whole point of using drawn animation (instead of actors/cgi) is to really push the limits of imagination and design; to do that which is too difficult/impractical in other mediums. although the animation in renaissance is certainly stunning and incredibly well-accomplished, i never felt like i was seeing something that hasn't been done before.<br /><br />immortel, another french cgi film, also suffers from an imbalance of beauty over story & pace. to be fair, some marvellous and engaging french movies also have a languid pace, and lingering shots of the look in someone's eyes or the rain on paris cobbles can evoke great emotion - but animators need to understand that while animation brings unique strengths, it also has weaknesses when compared to real-life technique. perhaps it would break from the 'noir' rules that the film wants to stick to, but i think the film-makers also missed a glaring opportunity to explore their future society a bit more - the social strata, the fascistic grip of the corporations etc.<br /><br />i have no problem recommending renaissance to anybody who enjoys stylistic design and/or animation ('manga' fans in particular), but i wouldn't make my other film-loving friends sit through it. take away the sumptuous visuals and it's a barely average film.