it's utterly pointless to rate this film. it's as if you would condemn (or praise) the newly born for his future life. instead look at it as a powerful meditation at what could have been and what has been in the past 100+years. one hundred and eight years of the cinematograpy: what has become of the babe? i like to contemplate on what would have (creatively) happen if europe wasn't interrupted (devastated) twice by the great wars of the xxth century. on her ruins the bogus neon castle of the non-creative and reactionary circus named hollywood erected itself. before 1914 french, italian and scandinavian cinemas were leading the way both financially and of course creatively. french film in particular was already threading some very original and creative pathways that could have (if not interrupted) possibly altered the medium history in some unimaginable ways. one wonders what the film history would look like today if it wasn't stultified and choked by the mercantile and cheap political agenda of the hollywood's 80+ years of, what chekhov might define as the reek of greed and harlotry... be it as it might, please at least become aware of la sortie as the key (or at least one of them) to the "kingdom". thus the birthplace of cinema : lumiere brothers factory, lyon, france the date: march 19th 1895 (there's also a replica reel shoot in the summer of 1895 so if you notice summer lights and the workers' lighter clothing: that was the version shown to the very first people who ever saw the moving images. *louis lumiere: creative ideas, cinematography, direction it was all louis' own domain because auguste took care of the rest (money). *first film reels were all fifty seconds long: the camera(=le cinematograph) & the cameramen (le cinematographer) having only paltry fifty seconds to make things happen! *apparently le institute lumiere has managed to preserve around 1500 of these first films executed mostly by an industrious brigade of loumiere travelling cinematographers criss-crossing the globe. ***so, all the stars in starry heavens and a minute of silence for perhaps the most magical invention in human history (so far).