story says that on that on december 28, 1895, a small group of thirty-three people was gathered at paris's salon indien du grand caf'e to witness the cin'ematographe, a supposedly new invention that resulted from the work done by a couple of photographers named august and louis lumi`ere. the small audience reunited that day (some by invitation, most due to curiosity) didn't really know what to expect from the show, and when a stationary photograph appeared projected on a screen, most thought that the cin'ematographe was just another fancy devise to present slide-show projections. until the photograph started to move. what those thirty-three people experienced in awe that cold day of december was the very first public screening of a moving picture being projected on a screen; history was being written and cinema as we know it was born that day.<br /><br />of the 10 short movies that were shown during that historic day, "la sortie des usines lumi`ere" (literally "exiting the lumi`ere factory") was the very first to be screened. the film shows the many workers of the lumi`ere factory as they walk through the gates of the factory, leaving the building at the end of a hard day of work. while a very basic "actuality film" (movie depicting a real event), the movie took everyone in the audience by surprise, as their concept of moving pictures was limited to edison's "peep show" machines (the kinetoscope), the brothers' invention was like nothing they had seen before and so the audience stood in awe, as the people and the horses moved across the screen. the idea wasn't entirely new (le prince shot the first movie as early as 1888), but the way of showing the movie was simply revolutionary.<br /><br />"la sortie des usines lumi`ere" would become the first in the long series of "actuality films" that the lumi`ere would produce over the years. this primitive form of documentary was the brothers' favorite kind of film because they were more interested in the technological aspects of their invention than in the uses the cin'ematographe could have. despite the initial lack of enthusiasm, after the first showing the cin'ematographe became a great success and "la sortie des usines lumi`ere" quickly became an iconic image of that first screening. it definitely wasn't the first movie the brothers shot that year, and it probably wasn't the best of the 10 movies shown that day (personally i think that "l' arroseur arros'e" was the best of the 10); however, it is really meaningful that the very first movie was the opening of a pair of gates, as literally, this movie opened the gates to cinema as we know it. 8/10