you know the people in the movie are in for it when king-sized hailstones fall from a clear blue sky. in fact, the weather stays pretty bad throughout this atmospheric thriller, and only lawyer chamberlain has the answer. but he's too much the european rationalist, i gather, to get in touch with that inner being that only reveals itself through dreams.<br /><br />darkly original mystery heavy on the metaphysics from director-writer peter weir. already he had proved his skill at flirting with other dimensions in picnic at hanging rock (1975). here it's the arcane world of the australian aborigines that confronts that the tightly ordered world of the predominant whites. something strange is going on inside the aborigine community when they kill one of their number for no apparent reason. yuppie lawyer chamberlain is supposed to defend them in a white man's court. but the more he looks into things, the more mysterious things get, and the more interested a strange old aboriginal man gets in him. and then there're those scary dreams that come and go at odd times.<br /><br />well structured screenplay deepens interest throughout. one reason the movie works is the background normalcy of chamberlain's wife and little daughters. audiences can readily identify with them. and when their little world runs into forces beyond the usual framework, the normalcy begins to buckle, and we get the feeling of worlds beginning to collide. chamberlain underplays throughout, especially during the underground discovery tour where i think he should have shown more growing awareness than he does. after all, it's the picking up of the mask that holds the key (i believe) to the riddle, yet his reaction doesn't really register the revelation. <br /><br />of course, the notion of nature striking back has a certain resonance now, thirty years later. in the film, the notion is wrapped in a lot of entertaining hocus-pocus, but the subject itself remains a telling one. one way of bringing out a central irony in the movie is the symbolism of the opening scene. a big white suv barrels past an aboriginal family, leaving them in the historical dust. the terrain looks like an interior tribal reservation of no particular importance to the coastal fleshpots where industry dwells. yet, it's also a region most likely to survive anything like a destructive last wave. perhaps there's something about past and future to think about here.<br /><br />anyway, this is a really good movie that will probably stay with you.