spoilers i loved the later episodes from college and on, but i wish i could get the last season on dvd. unfortunately, the latest i could get is the first college season. still the teenage years were sweet; although they focused a lot on magic, they also made her into a character that teens could relate to, deeling with the stuggles of teens, and children in divorced families. this show was very innocent; they did not get into the morbid teenage problems such as sex and drugs, but they did deel with pressure to fit in. i loved watching her grow up and cope with her magic on her own and trying to convince her aunts to let go as she left the nest. the older episodes were cute, but it was just so much better to see her as (well not really a teenage witch anymore) but an adult witch. i loved roxy and mortgan; they were so talented! in the earlier episodes the aunts were great actresses, but they were so strict, kind and loving, but they treated her like a young child in some ways, but not in every way. i mean they grounded her for every little mistake she made with her magic, i mean let her learn from her own mistakes for once! that was what i liked about the college episodes; she was able to learn from her own mistakes without be grounded over everything; that was annoying. not to put down hilda and zelda. melissa joan hard is beautiful and was perfect for the sabrina with her perky personality. i liked the last episode where she ran off the marry harvey, but as somebody else said, it would have been nice to see what happened after. i mean i believe it was obvious they were getting married; where else would they be running off to in her wedding dress? but i would have liked to have seen it. i supposed they wanted to leave it up to the viewer to choose the ending though rather than spoon feeding it to us as most comedies do. somebody said they could have shown them marry and go to school in the house, but they already graduated college. sabrina had great job for a magazine and i think harvey had a good job, because he lived in a nice apartment that we only see at the end, but they never say what he does. as a child they always talk about how he does not want to be an exterminator like his dad. when sabrian moved into the house that season, they never really explain how it happened. actually, there is a lot the show does not explain, but i supposed it is supposed to be to leave it up to us and give it some mystery. prior to sabrina and her friends moving into the house, they show hilda getting married and this whole spell that ends up with zelda turning into a child. hilda comes back in the last episode (and zelda is there in some other form, but beth is not on the episode) but they do not show zelda's husband or what happened, like did they have children? maybe they didn't want too much going on in one episode. i also liked hart's sister who played her spoiled cousin! she was pretty and a great actress and it was interesting to see her grown up! i cannon believe it has been six years since the show went off the air! i still love the reruns! also, i don't know if anybody noticed this, but in the earlier episodes, the town was called westbridbe (a made up town i believe, which was supposed to be close to salem) but in the later episodes, they don't mention the name of the town being caled westbridge and i think they call it boston, unless that is just where she worked. also, i wanted to add, i found the episode, "wild wild sabrina" where she is taught about the importance of rules, to be insulting. she was 18 and too old to be grounded; i would have been insulted if my parents grounded me at 18. and i think while an 18 year old might mess up how she did, they need to learn the consequences on their own. i think at 18 they know rules are important.