ronald colman plays a famous broadway actor who has begun to lose his mind and sense of identity. after years of playing a wide range of parts, he can't remember who he exactly is--who are his roles and who is the self. and, much more serious, he begins to see and hear his play even in regular everyday life. so, since he's currently playing in "othello", he begins to act jealous and suspicious--just like the title character. ultimately, it leads him to the depths of insanity and murder.<br /><br />i saw this film years ago and liked it. i just saw it again and loved it. now perhaps some of my enthusiasm is because i have always liked ronald colman and this is a great triumph for him--and for which he earned the best actor oscar. and, looking at the competition that year (gregory peck for gentleman's agreement, john garfield for body and soul, william powell for life with father and michael redgrave for mourning becomes electra), i think colman was a very good choice, as he stretched from his usual comfort zone and did a much more demanding role.<br /><br />now i noticed that one reviewer hated this film because they hated shakespeare--and this took up about half their review talking about their dislike for him. however, this film isn't really about shakespeare, and it doesn't matter at all if you dislike shakespeare. i am no huge fan of shakespeare, but marveled at the small portions of the play that colman re-enacted--though, as i said, this is not a really movie about shakespeare. instead, it's a wonderful portrait of an actor losing his mind and mixing his stage role with reality. it could have been any play, though "othello" was an excellent choice because of the murder scene--which gets acted out for real later in the film.<br /><br />overall, a very clever film due to a lovely script--with some overtones of film noir. fortunately, the acting was terrific also, as colman had excellent support from signe hasso, shelly winters and edmond o'brien (who was particularly good--he played his part just right). and, considering the great george cukor was directing, it's no wonder it's a wonderful film from start to finish.