i am from sweden and i have just seen this movie and the thing is that i thought it was okay. i have seen many bad comments about it but you must remember that a lot of people that watch this two parts miniseries are located all over the world and not just in usa. also remember that not everyone has ever heard of the film made in the 60:s and maybe not in the events(murders). and even more...that it can be hard to find the original movie and if so there always be people around that doesn't like black/white films. this one feels fresh and in color and will find its public. its 12 years old now but i just saw it for the first time. i will try to find the first one if i can to compare them but i haven't seen it anywhere in sweden. ofcorse there is internet but not for anyone in the world. the thing here is that this is mostly part of an american crime-history and was big in the 50-60:s in just usa but in rest of the world it just past by i guess. well it was told about for some time but 40 years later it will fade away in for example europa cause time goes by. we had our own problems and crimes so if someone will do a remake of the film and put it back in some light again its not a bad idea at all. a new generation can take part of this horrible story and even the film about capote that was released just a few years ago witch was a pretty good film too i think. it will boost interest to the events that took place some 50 years ago and maybe stop it to fall in sleep. it started me up and now i am looking for the robert blake-version so it wasn't that bad...huh? this are my opinions. some people will of course disagree but hey...its okay. sometimes there will be okay with remakes on old films. its not every time the old ones are that good. the film-making techniques has developed a lot and scenes can be made more realistic if they want today. its always a question of money of course. there has been so many movies that were made in the "good old days" but there were also money missing, bad directors etc, and they remakes them today (50 years later) and suddenly they are okay to watch. my friend got this box of old classic horror-movies and s/f and i cant say i was impressed of the so called good old days. most of them you cold put in the trashcan directly. they were so bad that we just sat there like zombies...could not move...like brain-dead. i cant recommend them to anyone. some of them i have seen remakes of and i remember liking them...but not the originals. they were just painful awful. this is like the old story of who was the best bond...moore or connery...i think if you see roger moore first you maybe find him the one to trust or like... thanks for me and i am sorry for my english, thats not so good. /lars from sweden