you know what they say about the 70's..if you can remember them you weren't there. one of the few things i do remember about the 70's was the very first hippie and hip social satire as seen from a totally 'underground'or counter-culture perspective..the groove tube. if the humor seems faded or witless now to some viewers it can only be because a lot has happened in the last 30 years and the comedy isn't 'fresh' anymore..but hey! when this movie came out it was a first..and some of these skits were being done for the very first time...at a time when nixon was in office, the vietnam war was raging, the sexual revolution was in full swing..and j.edgar hoover was still in charge of the fbi. this is a film made before watergate broke and as such it was one of the first to take a big swipe at the establishment..to make fun of it and the hippies at the same time. and frankly, some skits are still dead funny. if you liked cheech and chong's "up in smoke"..you will love this film.<br /><br />if you want to know what the 70's were really like..check out the groove tube.. if you liked the oscar winning "network" from about the same year and thought it was right on the mark in its savage look at tv, you will dig the groove tube..which picks up on the theme but plays from the angle of the viewers...the young viewers who were turning off the tv in favor of other entertainments.... we had been raised on ozzie & harriet "leave it to beaver", father knows best, my three sons..happy days...so imagine our glee when those of us who were experimenting with the new life-styles got to see a send up of the box as seen from our perspective! the commercials by the uranus corporation alone are priceless.."good things come from uranus"....and the sudden break from straight film into fritz the cat-style animation when the hippies eat the weed is still one of the best segues in and out of sanity i have ever seen on film.<br /><br />if you liked the kentucky fried movie, you will love this film. and if you ever wondered why your weird uncle harold still gets a wicked gleam in his eye when thinking back to his college days..this would be the perfect film to watch.<br /><br />take it for what it is..a memento of the times...and a sassy little film that will help all of us who did forget the 70's to remember them anew.