a new creative team emerged in 1950 when brilliant actor james stewart teamed with the equally-brilliant director anthony mann to make a series of westerns that helped define that genre for the future. until that time stewart was mainly noted for an aw..aw..aw approach to family oriented comedies, dramas, and romances. not that he wasn't already a multi-talented hollywood star. one of his best screen performances ever and one of the best for anyone on celluloid was as macaulay 'mike' connor, a sarcastic writer for a scandal rag in "the philadelphia story." he had even done westerns before. his portrayal of gun shy yet expert shot thomas jefferson destry jr. in the comedy western "destry rides again" helped make that film a classic. but to most movie goers he was the all-american boyscout type mr. smith or george bailey. seldom was there a dark side to any of the characters he played. <br /><br />anthony mann was associated with b flicks in the film noir mode. "raw deal," "side street," and "t-men" caught the eye of james stewart. so the two gifted men combined their resources to produce some of the greatest hollywood westerns ever made. "winchester '73" and "the man from laramie" were the best but the others were almost as effective. mann became a successful director of a films as a result going on to direct what some critics believe to be the greatest western of them all gary cooper's "man of the west." stewart became fabulously wealthy as a result of the partnership because he signed for part of the royalties in return for a fraction of the salary he was usually paid, a wise move indeed followed by many other actors from then on.<br /><br />winchester '73 was also one of the first films, maybe the first, to tell a story from the standpoint of a traveling gun. each owner is part of the tale being told and it all comes together in the exciting showdown at the end of the movie, which also holds a surprise for the viewer. based on a story by stuart lake, the tale centers on revenge and the ownership of the winchester '73. the year is 1876. custer and his 7th cavalry have been annihilated by the sioux and cheyenne at little big horn. the whites want revenge. the native americans want their land and their way of life back. this conflict leads to a confrontation between native americas led by young bull (young rock hudson showing his potential as an actor) and a small cavalry group pinned down in a canyon and joined by civilians lin mcadam (stewart), his partner and life-long pal high spade ( the underrated actor millard mitchell), and a couple trying to find themselves, steve miller (charles drake) and lola manners (shelley winters), a soiled dove with a kind heart. among the horse soldiers are newcomers tony curtis and james best (late of the "dukes of hazzard"), whose part is cut short by a bullet.<br /><br />wyatt earp was in dodge city in 1876. the movie has him as head marshal. the fine actor will geer (later of the waltons) looks like an older earp. in reality wyatt was assistant marshal in dodge at the time just cutting his teeth on being a lawman. lin mcadam wins the winchester in a shooting contest, but has it taken from him not long afterward by outlaw dutch henry brown (stephen mcnally) and his henchmen. mcadam and high spade are after both dutch henry and the winchester for the remainder of the movie. an even more sinister character emerges along the way, waco johnnie dean, played as evil personified by dan duryea who threatens to steal the show from the other members of a stellar cast.<br /><br />the winchester passes through several hands during the course of the film, each time the transfer is intense. one involves a gunrunner played to perfection by john mcintire. other swaps are intermingled with the scenario above. all this plus the action keeps the viewer glued to the seat throughout the entire show.<br /><br />as noted above, the cast is first rate down to the smallest role. look for other familiar faces in uncredited parts, including the future sheriff of "bonanza" ray teal and b western reliable panhandle perkins (guy wilkerson).