"addictive" is an adjective i've heard many times when talking of certain tv shows. most recently, dramas like lost, heroes and prison break have earned that description. however, as compelling as they may be (and they really are) i can wait a few days before i see the next episode of either series, even prison break which some have lazily classified as "the new 24". with all due respect, there can be no such thing, and for a good reason: no other silver-screen thriller is based on a real-time structure. that's what sets 24 apart from any other show, and that's why i practically have to watch an entire season (on dvd) in seven days or less: once the frickin' clock starts ticking, it's impossible to tune out.<br /><br />an episode whose events unfolded over the course of a single day was a trademark of nypd blue (and, more recently, deadwood); having an entire season of a new series last 24 hours, one per ep (the actual running time is 41 minutes; the remaining 19 are occupied by commercials when the show airs on telly), was the most groundbreaking idea in mainstream television since hill street blues introduced non-linear storytelling (a mandatory element nowadays). and it truly paid off.<br /><br />ironically enough, the original plan for the series was to make it revolve around a wedding (fortunately, creators joel surnow and robert cochran realized the format was more suitable for a conspiracy thriller), which is probably the reason the first glimpse we get of the hero suggests a cheerful atmosphere: looking extremely relaxed, jack bauer (kiefer sutherland) is enjoying a game of chess with his daughter kimberly (elisha cuthbert) and, minutes later, being tender with teri (leslie hope), the wife with whom he has just reconciled. as in the sopranos, though, something unexpected and shocking is just behind the corner: not only has kim snuck out of her room, jack also receives a phone call urging him to get to work immediately. at midnight? i'm afraid so: bauer is a ctu (counter terrorist unit) agent, and his boss has acquired reliable intel about a possible hit on the life of david palmer (dennis haysbert), an african-american presidential candidate who will be in los angeles for the whole day (oh, right, i almost forgot: events occur on the day of the california presidential primary). no time for napping, then: jack has to spend the next 24 hours working on the case. unfortunately, he has a tendency to ignore protocol, and that doesn't sit well with george mason (xander berkeley), a slimy man from division who has been asked to interfere with the operation.<br /><br />the plot is very dense, making the show hard to recommend for those with a short attention span, but anyone willing to take a look will be rewarded instantly: the writing is sharp and precise, the attention to detail unsurpassed, and the suspense is consistently sky-high, mainly thanks to the real-time trickery which considerably enhances the adrenaline level.<br /><br />another great quality of this pilot is the characterization: most genre shows (sci-fi and thriller) tend to simply introduce the key players and then define them later on (a textbook example is csi, where character development is minimal, but then again that matches the show's unique style), whereas the series debut of 24 offers a rich array of fully rounded people, among whom jack (sutherland's best role - ever!) and palmer (the real revelation of the show) stand out for being perfectly described after one episode only (the former divided between job and family, reckless but humane, the latter honorable and endowed with great integrity). a couple of supporting parts border on stereotype (mason and tony almeida especially), but two factors ought to be taken into account: a) this is the first episode; b) there's so much going on most viewers won't even complain about a "flaw" or two. after all, how many network programs manage to begin with a conspiracy, a missing teenager and a huge explosion - and still have equally satisfying material for the rest of the season?<br /><br />tick, tock, tick, tock...