seven pounds, this was the movie where i was just convinced will smith is really going for the "i'm going to make you cry" films. one thing i can give him a ton of credit for, the man can cry. my only thing is, as moving as the story is, will smith has proved time and time again that he can act, so why is he taking this extremely depressing story? but nevertheless it's still a good movie. i do have to admit it made me cry, but i felt that the stand out performance was rosario dawson, i absolutely love this girl, ever since i saw her in 25th hour with ed norton, i knew this girl was going to go far. she's beautiful, charming, funny and talented, can't wait to see how much further her career is going to go. but her and will smith, not so sure if they had the great chemistry that the film needed that would've made this into a great film.<br /><br />two years ago tim thomas was in a car crash, which was caused by him using his mobile phone; seven people died: six strangers and his fianc'ee. a year after the crash, and having quit his job as an aeronautical engineer, tim donates a lung lobe to his brother, ben, an irs employee. six months later he donates part of his liver to a child services worker named holly. after that he begins searching for more candidates to receive donations. he finds george, a junior hockey coach, and donates a kidney to him, and then donates bone marrow to a young boy named nicholas. two weeks before he dies he contacts holly and asks if she knows anyone who deserves help. she suggests connie tepos, who lives with an abusive boyfriend. tim moves out of his house and into a local motel taking with him his pet box jellyfish. one night, after being beaten, connie contacts tim and he gives her the keys and deed to his beach house. she takes her two children and moves in to their new home. having stolen his brother's credentials, and making himself known by his brother's name ben, he checks out candidates for his two final donations. the first is ezra turner, a blind vegetarian meat salesman who plays the piano. tim calls ezra turner and harasses him at work to check if he is quick to anger. ezra remains calm and tim decides he is worthy. he then contacts emily posa, a self-employed greeting card printer who has a heart condition and a rare blood type. he spends time with her, weeding her garden and fixing her rare heidelberg printer. he begins to fall in love with her and decides that as her condition has worsened he needs to make his donation.<br /><br />seven pounds is a good film and no doubt worth a look, i would just recommend going for the rental vs. the theater. will smith pulls in a good performance, but not his best, just most of the film required him crying in every scene, but the last one with him is a doozy. but i loved the ending, it was beautiful and really made you appreciate life and to not take it for granted. there is still good people in this world and ben's character reminds you to value life and to give to those who are in desperate need. although he went a little far, but it was still a beautiful story.<br /><br />7/10