this film is one of the best shorts i've ever seen - and as i make it a point to be at all the major film festivals, i've seen a lot, especially of what the industry considers "the best." i'm not a fan of monaghan. his acting generally tends to be overdone and uninteresting to me, his only decent performance being in lost, so i generally try to avoid his films. i did, however, happen to see this at a film festival a few years back and was completely awed. this director really knows what she's doing. of course, you are going to get the trolls (or just ignorant people) who don't understand what constitutes a good film and rip on low budget work because they have no idea what went into it. but luckily, from what i've seen, they are in the minority when it comes to this gem.<br /><br />let's not deny that the film was working on no budget, and that a couple of the supporting actors could still use work, because that's certainly true. the production value is very low, but what can you expect for a first real film from someone still in high school? pretend for a moment that the budget doesn't matter. if you take away a bit of the acting, the sound quality (which actually wasn't the fault of the filmmaker; i saw this at a festival and the sound was fine...i guarantee whoever made the dvd itself screwed up), and the fact it was shot on mini-dv, then what are you left with? the story, the visual composition and the soul of the film, which are indisputably flawless.<br /><br />nanavati can tell a story. that much is clear. she can write substance-heavy, engaging scripts better than most people in hollywood, create a shot list that perfectly compliments that story, and bring it to life in a fascinating, creative way that, were this higher budget, might have won awards. give it more experienced actors, better sound post-production, and 35mm instead of mini-dv and even the trolls couldn't complain. this girl is incredible, and keeping in mind that insomniac was made a good few years ago, she's done some amazing work since. the trailer for dreams of an angel shows that, and i can't wait to see the higher budget stuff she's done. 9/10 stars, this is one hell of a movie from one hell of a filmmaker.