on this 4th of july weekend it's heartening to see the spirit of the declaration of independence alive and well in the film "war, inc." just as our founding fathers gave the back of their collective hand to king george iii, this film exposes in hilarious fashion the craven war-profiteering by the current crop of capitalistic creeps who are intent on indecently privatizing the government, to include privatizing war itself.<br /><br />the cast in this satire absolutely shines. john cusack is wonderful as a droll, conflicted corporate assassin, and the beautiful marisa tomei is superb as his love interest. (my gosh, "george costanza" was right. marisa tomei is so attractive!) but it is john's sister joan cusack who really steals the film. her portrayal of a bossy, yet simultaneously sycophantic, personal assistant is priceless, and more than once i just couldn't stop laughing at the brilliance of her performance. she not only possesses fantastic comic timing, her face is as expressive as one could ever wish for in an actor. dan ackroyd, too, has a short, but very effective, cameo in the film as the head of the company which is running the war, the tamerlane corporation. sitting on a "throne" with his pants down around his ankles, ackroyd even looks like the arse clown who currently occupies one of our real thrones of power. you won't have to think too hard to recognize that person. much of this movie was filmed in bulgaria, which is why we are able to see so much real military equipment. (you just know that the us military would never have cooperated in making this satiric expose of war-profiteering.) i especially enjoyed the character of "omar sharif" as played by the bulgarian actor lyubomir neikov. in one scene in which he is on the dance floor with marisa tomei he has a couple of lines that could summarize our entire foreign policy attitude toward the foreign leaders we install - and uninstall - in power.<br /><br />naturally, this film won't appeal to everyone. if you believe that the on-going privatization of our foreign policy, the military, intelligence collection and analysis, prisons and the corrections system, public health, and a myriad of other government services is a good thing you may not find much to like in this film. if you believe, however, that destroying people and countries in order to add to some corporation's bottom line is an abomination i think you'll find much to appreciate in this film. nothing could be more in keeping with the spirit of independence that heaping well-deserved ridicule on corrupt powers that be.