joshua seftel's first film - a satire of memorable proportions - is about just as the title suggests: the corporations effect on war.<br /><br />the film is about a mercenary (john cusack) traveling to turaqistan (not a real country, fyi) to help the american government 'get their message across' to turaqistan's leaders. he meets a reporter (marisa tomei) and we all know what will ensue with a lonely man + a hot reporter. somewhere in the mix, a pop star named yonica babyyeah gets thrown in. as yonica is marrying one of turaquistan's most important people (a son of the president), a subplot is created where the mercenary must watch over this star, well, somewhat. the film starts off with a lonely cusack in a bar; no more than fifteen seconds later, the film hooks you. with it's amusing and intriguing insight on terrorism and politics, the film's running time blows by you. the film has a lot more action than i expected, with the occasional scene of war, well choreographed fights and just sporadic scenes of murder. though the story isn't much deep, the simplicity of it all makes the film perfect for both the common man and movie critics alike.<br /><br />in the final act of the film, the simplicity of it all turns very hostile and jumbled. i thought it was executed very well, but other may disagree, and i could understand why. twist after twist is what the ending is all about, and like most films, it is a true hit/miss situation. regardless, the three writers on the film (mark leyner, jeremy pikser & john cusack) did a fantastic job creating a realistic and entertaining satire on today's situation overseas.<br /><br />joshua seftel does an excellent job insuring the film's integrity; not reducing the material to the most redundant of films (which i was afraid would happen). seftel crafted the film as perfectly as one could: he created a vibrant atmosphere, one that is both examines harsh reality and cartoonish falsities; - contrasting them perfectly - as well as making the film feel as if you were watching it all. seftel really gets you involved in all of the action and it pays off completely. no missteps here. hopefully, he takes on more directorial jobs, for he is one director to look out for.