an intriguingly bold film weaves the seemingly effortless camerawork with some superb casting and an explosive soundtrack to plot the damaging effects of the crime and corruption of the santiago underworld on 2 naive young brothers from the southern city of temuco.<br /><br />film debutant daniella rios is the seductive erotic dancer gracia, working in the nightclub owned by the face of the new mini-wave in chilean film production, alejandro trejo. the elder brother, played maturely by nestor cantillana, is easily convinced to become trejo's lead henchman, after a night at the stripclub to celebrate younger brother victor's (juan pablo miranda) seventeenth birthday. from the establishing shot of this opening scene, the film explodes into neo-noir exploration of everything the outside world doesn't usually expect to see in this country so stereotypically conservative and catholic.<br /><br />gracia's charms of seduction attract the three men like bees to honey, although the circular narrative of the three-way fantasy romance revolves around the linear portrayal of major international drug deals between trejo's men and the 'gringo', eduardo barril. power relations become a vital theme, as society's outsiders merge in a mini-family. the prostitute holds an exotic spell over all the chilean men in the film, emerging from her ambiguous position in the periphery of society, and is seen as holding the key to all three men's futures. the relationships between trejo and cantillana become important, as the boys' parents are conspicious by their absence (one assumes they still live in temuco). therefore it is trejo, el padrino, who 'adopts' cantillana, and effectively 'makes him' as a man in the city. miranda rapidly becomes the desperate outsider, as his dependency on his 'father figure', cantillana, becomes increasingly strained by jealousy over the beautiful gracia. however, miranda remains trapped by the constraint of still being in school - he is dependent on cantillana, who is dependent on trejo, for the money to survive. trejo, in turn, is under the thumb of the 'gringo', and his wealth has been accumulated through drug deals and well as his strip clubs. the figure of gracia acts as a time bomb viewed as a beautiful firework, she wraps a web of beauty inside the patriarchy but the strain can only lead to one climax.<br /><br />as the tensions of these power relations come to head, gracia remains ambiguously elusive. the viewer is never sure which male figure she will commit to. the film concludes tragically and explosively in a shoot out which realigns power relations and erases half the major male protanganists. the final shot of miranda's beaten face speeding down the panamericano highway is despairingly powerful. the boy has been sucked in by the lure of the city's underworld, yet has lost his only visible family, and his woman, who is his only friend in the film. he has nothing. the overriding metaphors are bold and brave. this is a gangster film in chile. the notions of family, no sex before marriage etc, are abolished, and instead the harsh realities of the other side of santiago's coin are displayed in all their savage glory. trejo beats rios brutally, rios and miranda make love in a cinema reel room - a whore having sex with a minor she barely knows. the 'gringos' are seen to have a financial hold over this small latin american nation, but not through the copper mines, through the illegal path of drugs.<br /><br />waissbluth's triumph is in his presentation of this dark underworld, which raises so many social questions, more perhaps than the record-breakingly successful sexo con amor, within a slick, smooth firecracker of a film, which place this film firmly alongside sexo con amor, taxi para tres, and el chacotero sentimental, as cinematic evidence that chile is well and truly artistically alive and kicking in the post-transition period 15 years after the censorship of the military regime.