this was a very good movie and is absolutely unfair to judge it without taking into account the time when it was released. there are some movies which do not get older but this is clearly out of date. however, i saw this film when i was a boy and for more than twenty years both the images as the story were unforgettable for me and most of my friends, until we could appreciate it again on dvd. actually, i do remember this movie as the topic of several chats and meetings where old boys were talking about things we have in common. therefore there was a little feeling of disappoint and even sadness when we finally had the dvd. firstly, there was a theory about how naives our generation was. secondly, i think there is something more. i would asset that this movie has something which should be interesting for all the modern film makers, specifically those who focus on the decaying horror genre. this is the mutilation, the idea which gives coherence to the film; the fact of a human being mutilated produces a deeper horror than death and torture. i remember how sick the sensation was, when the monster rip kurt's arm out. and at the end; when the creature bites the doctor's neck to take a piece of his veins. another remarkable thing is the morbid atmosphere which prevails without decaying in intensity through all the scenes, no matter if the action is on a secret lab, a lonely street where the man in a car is looking for a female body, a striper dressing room, and so on. may be the reasons why it is not longer a good movie are just technical things. for example, in the scene of the accident and the man saving his fianc'ee's head a more accurate work, made for another and modern second unit director could be interesting. same thing with all action scenes, including the one of kurt's arm. furthermore, something could be done with the monster's make up. some remakes have been good; i think in this case an attempt would worth while. nevertheless, the black and white tones should be conserved.