halloween is not only the godfather of all slasher movies but the greatest horror movie ever! john carpenter and debra hill created the most suspenseful, creepy, and terrifying movie of all time with this classic chiller. michael myers is such a phenomenal monster in this movie that he inspired scores of imitators, such as jason vorhees (friday the 13th), the miner (my bloody valentine), and charlie puckett (the night brings charlie). okay, so i got a little obscure there, but it just goes to show you the impact that this movie had on the entire horror genre. no longer did a monster have to come from king tut's tomb or from dr. frankenstein's lab. he could be created in the cozy little neighborhoods of suburbia. and on the night he came home...haddonfield, illinois and the viewers would never be the same. there are many aspects of this movie that make it the crowning jewel of horror movies. first is the setting...it takes place in what appears to be a normal suburban neighborhood. many of us who grew up in an area such as this can easily identify with the characters. this is the type of neighborhood where you feel safe, but if trouble starts to brew, nobody wants to lift a finger to get involved (especially when a heavy-breathing madman is trying to skewer our young heroine.) along with the setting, the movie takes place on halloween!! the scariest night of the year! while most people are carving jack-o-lanterns, michael myers is looking to carve up some teenie-boppers. besides the setting, there is some great acting. jamie lee curtis does a serviceable job as our heroine, laurie strode, a goody-two-shoes high-schooler who can never seem to find a date. however, it is donald pleasance, as dr. sam loomis, who really steals the show. his portrayal of the good doctor, who knows just what type of evil hides behind the black eyes of michael myers and feels compelled to send him to hell once and for all, is the stuff of horror legend. however, it is the synthesizer score that really drives this picture as it seems to almost put the viewer into the film. once you hear it, you will never forget it. i also enjoy the grainy feel to this picture. nowadays, they seem to sharpen up the image of every movie, giving us every possible detail of the monster we are supposed to be afraid of. in halloween, john carpenter never really lets us get a complete look at michael myers. he always seems like he is a part of the shadows, and, i think that is what makes him so terrifying. there are many scenes where michael is partly visible as he spies on the young teens (unbeknownst to them), which adds to his creepiness. if you think about, some wacko could be watching you right now and you wouldn't even know it. unfortunately for our teenagers (and fortunately for us horror fans), when they find michael, he's not looking for candy on this halloween night..he's looking for blood. finally, michael myers, himself, is a key element to this movie's effectiveness. his relentless pursuit of laurie strode makes him seem like the killer who will never stop. he is the bogeyman that will haunt you for the rest of your life. so,if you have not seen this movie (if there are still some of you out there who haven't, or even if you have), grab some popcorn, turn off every light, pop this into the old dvd and watch in fright. trick or treat!