this delighted audiences at a number of film festivals, and it is not hard to see why. director yang zhang, with the help of some very nice work by the three principle actors, xu zhu as the father, master liu; quanxin pu as the elder son, da ming; and especially wu jiang as the irrepressible and lovable younger son, er ming, spins a tale that will warm the coldest heart.<br /><br />the film starts with a man taking a shower in an automated booth in the middle of beijing. he puts some money in a slot, opens the door, takes off his clothes and puts some of them on a conveyor belt to be cleaned, steps into the shower and gets cleaned with brushes and squirts of water and soap as though he's a car at the car wash. this is the future symbolically speaking, and the old bathhouse we will see in the next scene is the past. agrarian china is giving way to industrial china.<br /><br />pollution? cultural revolution hang-over? industrialization blues? no way. what we have here is a celebration of people and their kindness and love for one another, a celebration of goodness in the hearts of men. yet i wonder how the chinese government views this film. on the one hand, it clearly presents a pleasant view of china and its people. it is stringently nonpolitical without criticism of the present regime expressed or implied. yet there is the slightest sense that the good old ways are going to be replaced by something that may not be as good. i think yang zhang had the wisdom to just let that be as it may. tell a story about old men at the bathhouse where they get back rubs and massages, where they tell tall tales and reminisce about the good old days, where they can relax and play chinese chess and stage cricket fights, where the master is a spry and wise old guy and his assistant is his son, who may be retarded or autistic, but who does his job with glee and an infectious spirit of fun and good will.<br /><br />enter back on the scene the older son, da ming, who is polished, well groomed and taciturn. he is uncomfortable with what he sees as the unsophisticated behavior of his father and brother. he represents modern china with his tie and his briefcase, his cell phone and his education. he has only returned because he thought his father was dying. when he sees that this is not true, he packs his bags and is set to return to his wife and his career. but then a crisis ensues and it is during this crisis that da ming sees the value of the natural, people-centered life that his father and his brother have been living.<br /><br />and so yang zhang reconciles the old and the new, and does so in such a charming manner that i will not object, especially since his style is so neat and so carefully expressed. one of the nice things he does that i miss in most movies is the way he dovetails the subplots within the larger story so that they are resolved before the picture ends. the bathhouse regular who sings "o sole mio" in the bathhouse as the water showers down upon him, much to the delight of er ming, finds that he can't sing in public because of stage fright. near the end of the film he loses his stage fright and sings thanks to some inspired help from er ming. and the bathhouse regular who is losing his wife because...well, he tells a tale to master liu before he confesses the real reason. but liu understands and again before the movie is over, husband and wife are reconciled.<br /><br />this kind of "happy ending" movie-making is unusual in today artistic and international films, or in almost any film directed at adults. some happy endings are so contrived as to embarrass not only their contrivers but their audiences. and some are so blatantly condescending that the audience is offended. here however the audience is delighted.<br /><br />see this especially for the comedic performance by wu jiang whose warm effervescence overcomes any handicap his character may have.