i saw this movie in the theater when it came out. i grew up in scottsdale and i went to arizona state and really enjoyed seeing locations where i spent so much time. i remember at the time thinking that barbara's venture into more of a rock sound (actually r and b-to my ears) was a successful one. i was never a fan of kris's singing until his last effort for new west. as a songwriter and an actor, though, he has serious chops, imho. i think it is a fine romance. i like it better than the judy garland version and never saw selznick's janet gaynor original. <br /><br />i do believe that they made some changes in this long-awaited dvd release. among other things, i recall the helicopter shot which reveals a packed sun devil stadium being longer and more dramatic. i wish they had done a better job writing music for kris or god forbid, put some of his original songs in there. <br /><br />along those lines i have some information from a primary source that says that the music was a problem for kris and barbara. while doing interviews for my own new music documentary, rocking the boat: a musical conversation and journey, i interviewed stephen bruton, a fine singer/songwriter/guitarist with close professional and personal ties to kris, bonnie raitt, and delbert mcclinton, among many others. stephen was in "speedway," the john norman character's band. kris was having a real hard time turning what was essentially a pop score into something that could pass for rock. stephen was and is kris's friend and long time band member. there was tension on the set and at one point the band was barking at kris in barbara's presence. she remarked to the effect that the band shouldn't talk to him like that. kris came right back to the effect that they were his friends and they were rock and roll! in the end, barbara came around and decided to use kris's band's live performances in the movie and specifically sited stephen's role in making things work. i gained even greater respect for her as an artist upon hearing this story. much is made of her as a diva. what she is is a pro. and i am not gay. not that there is anything wrong with that.