someone(or, something thing..)is leaving puncture marks on the jugular and draining victims of their blood till dead. police detective karl brettschneider(melvyn douglas, before slipping out of the b-movie horror genre for greater heights)is stumped at who..or what..is behind these notorious crimes. the village is overcome by hysteria and karl depends on his trusted medical genius, dr. otto von niemann(lionel atwill, in yet another effective mad scientist role)to provide some feedback as to what might be causing the deaths of innocents. he also fears for the safety of his beloved ruth(the lovely fay wray who stars for the third time with atwill after "doctor x" & "the mystery of the wax museum")who is niemann's assistant.<br /><br />dwight frye steals the film as a rather loony village idiot who collects bats and carries a demented demeanor wherever he goes..it's easy to see why he becomes a suspect as local paranoia is at a fever pitch. maude eburne provides the film's humor as a very naive(..and easily influenced)patient of von niemann's who believes she has ailments she reads about in books near the laboratory where he works. she's impressionable and often von niemann just humors her and constant fictional illnesses she feels plagued with. lionel belmore returns as yet another frightened, superstitious b"urgermeister.<br /><br />creaky, static, but rather entertaining nonetheless thanks to the cast. the film is obviously as low-budget as they come, but this doesn't hurt the film too much since it's put together rather well by director frank r strayer and his crew. i'm certain the film's print has seen better days, though. this is the kind of b-horror item you'd find packaged in with 50 other random cheesefests and poverty row programmers. the film's villain..and his motives for feeding a synthetically made biological creature..certainly provides a different take on the frankenstein formula. many might be disappointed with the end results as the film strays away from being an actual supernatural tale about a real vampire killer causing the murders.