in an attempt to cash in on the success of universal's horror films majestic pictures hired several popular actors from the current genre and put them in this effort that (realistically speaking) is nowhere near as good. with that, this is still worth everyone's time and it's a heck of a lot of fun to view and in my opinion it's better than most of what is supposed to pass nowadays as horror! story takes place in the small german town of klineschloss where the bodies have been piling up completely drained of blood and with suspicious puncture marks. burgermister gustave schoen (lionel belmore) shouts "it's vampires" but the local police chief karl brettschneider (melvyn douglas) thinks it's a madman who's responsible and he vows to catch him.<br /><br />*****spoiler alert***** the burgermeister and most of the towns folk think that the local kook herman glieb (dwight frye) who loves bats and frequently talks to them is the one they are looking for and they chase him until he falls to his death in a cave. the one who is responsible for the killings is dr. otto von niemann (lionel atwill) who has created a new form of tissue mass that feeds on blood and he accomplishes this by having some sort of mind control over his servant emil (robert frazer) who goes out at night to collect the blood. dr. otto has a pretty assistant named ruth bertin (fay wray) and an annoying aunt named gussie (maude eburne) but they have no clue what he's up to but karl eventually become suspicious when one of the murders takes place after herman's death.<br /><br />frank r. strayer was never confused with being james whale but he was a pretty competent director who ended up directing most of the "blondie" films in that series and with this film he uses the same sets from "the old dark house" which was also filmed at universal. i'm the first to admit that this film is downright clumsy at times but it's practically impossible to resist a film that has a cast like this including frye who is pretty much doing his renfield role only this time he befriends bats and strokes them and keeps them in his pocket for safe keeping! one thing that just doesn't make sense is the mind control that dr. otto has over emil as the film never explains this and i had a strong sense that this was some sort of nod to "the cabinet of dr. caligari" but on the other hand it's probably just the weakest part of the script. there are a few other tidbits that i noticed including the chase of frye to the big caves which is obviously an early shot of the infamous bronson canyon where numerous other films have been made and also wray's brown hair which is her true color. true horror film fans will appreciate this more than others but i think this is a fun film to view for everyone and with a cast as attractive as this it's well worth a look.