this is one of the most underrated masterpieces of all time in my opinion, its thought provoking, funny and sad with amazing performances all around!. all the characters are wonderful, and the story is just brilliant!, plus jodie foster and cherie currie are simply amazing in this!. the ending is very powerful, however i won't spoil it for you, and i thought the character development was top notch!, plus you can really relate to all of the characters, especially jeanie and annie, as you will be rooting for them!, plus i loved how it moved slowly, and giving you a chance to get to know all the characters and what there about. i can't believe this only has a 5.9 rating on here as it should be much higher in my opinion, and it was funny seeing randy quaid in this type of role, plus this is extremely well written and made as well!. one scene that really got to me was when madge(marilyn kagan), is totally embarrassed by her mother for having the party, and the film has many surprising moments as well!, plus the dialog is especially excellent. this is one of the most underrated masterpieces of all time (in my opinion), its thought provoking, funny and sad with amazing performances all around, and i say go see it immediately!, your bound to love it!. the direction is fantastic!. adrian lyne does a fantastic job here, with awesome camera work, and keeping the film at an extremely engrossing pace!. the acting is amazing!. jodie foster is really cute, and is amazing as always!, she was extremely likable, caring, had a lovable character, was intense in some scenes, was focused, and she and cherie currie were the heart of the film as jeanie and annie!(foster rules!!!!!!!). cherie currie is way hot, and is amazing here, i really felt sorry for her character, as she had a very likable character that just needed help, she gives a powerful performance, and created a very memorable character she was amazing!. scott baio is great as brad he was really likable, and did his job well i liked him. randy quaid is great in his serious role surprisingly i liked him. sally kellerman is great as the mother i liked her a lot. marilyn kagan and kandice stroh are both very good as madge and deirdre, and did what they had to do well as the other two friends. laura dern has a very early role here, as it was cool to see her, not much of a part though. rest of the cast do fine. overall go see it immediately, it's an underrated masterpiece!. ***** out of 5