as a low budget enterprise in which the filmmakers themselves are manufacturing and distributing the dvds themselves, we perhaps shouldn't expect too much from broken in disc form. and yet what's most remarkable about this whole achievement is the fact that this release comes with enough extras to shame a james cameron dvd and a decidedly fine presentation.<br /><br />with regards to the latter, the only major flaw is that broken comes with a non-anamorphic transfer. otherwise we get the film in its original 1.85:1 ratio, demonstrating no technical flaws and looking pretty much as should be expected. indeed, given ferrari's hands on approach in putting this disc together you can pretty much guarantee such a fact.<br /><br />the same is also true of the soundtrack. here we are offered both dd2.0 and dd5.1 mixes and whilst i'm uncertain as to which should be deemed the "original", the fact that ferrari had an involvement in both means neither should be considered as inferior. indeed, though the dd5.1 may offer a more atmosphere viewing experience owing to the manner in which it utilises the score, both are equally fine and free of technical flaws.<br /><br />as for extras the disc is positively overwhelmed by them. take a look at the sidebar on the right of the screen and you'll notice numerous commentaries, loads of featurettes and various galleries. indeed, given the manner in which everything has been broken down into minute chunks rather than compiled into a lengthy documentary, there really is little to discuss. the 'anatomy of a stunt' featurette, for example, is exactly what it claims to be, and the same goes for the rest of pieces. as such we get coverage on pretty much ever aspect of broken's pre-production, production and post-production. and whilst it may have been preferable to find them in a more easily digestible overall 'making of', in this manner we do get easy access to whatever special feature we may wish to view.<br /><br />of the various pieces, then, it is perhaps only the commentaries which need any kind of discussion. then again, there's also a predictable air to each of the chat tracks. the one involving the actors is overly jokey and doesn't take the film too seriously. ferrari's pieces are incredibly enthusiastic about the whole thing. and the technical ones are, well, extremely technical. of course, we also get some crossover with what's been covered elsewhere on the discs, but at only 19 minutes none of these pieces outstay their welcome. indeed, all in all, a fine extras package.