lost, probably the best t.v series ever made. the storyline is clever and when all your questions are answered watching one episode, 100 more are raised. if lost can carry on it's magnificent ways and not get too carried away then it will be stapled the best show ever. the survivors of a plane crash are forced to live with each other on a remote island, a dangerous new world that poses unique threats of its own. after reading this your thinking how on earth can that be interesting? and heres your answer, every season so far has always been full of surprises, your always questioning your self why did that just happened and what's gonna happen next each time, very unexpected thing's happen and the story goes on wonderfully so far! the series just sucks you in, it's chilling and very addictive, everything from the wonderful creators and directing to the magnificent performances by the cast creates a very believable story. lost is simply unbelievable, amazing, highly entertaining, top notch, t.v at it's best.how ever you want to put it. <br /><br />lost beat's all other show's by a landslide. and if your hating or criticising lost you don't know how to watch t.v or watch drama. lost simply doesn't disappoint, you would think a series carrying on for so long can't keep getting better. but it does! it just keep's on flowing it's unlike anything you would ever think off. "every thing happens for a reason." and that is truly shown in the series. eventually you will reach a point were all the clues and everything that's happened or being done adds up. you will feel and realise how the characters have changed and how and why everything is going on. <br /><br />the 10 minutes of excitement: you see something you didn't see coming, something major has happened to character or on the island. there's hope somewhere. you see a major twist that can or will change everything. you hear your thought's churn, you wonder what's gonna happen next. your heart beating. the 30 minutes of brilliance: you see a flawless scenes, tension building, you hear wonderful music by michael giacchino. you see great flash backs, impressive acting. you see wittiness, chilling atmosphere, which then get's converted back into tension.<br /><br />everyone has there show that they are addicted too, that they can't get enough of, that they admire every minute and can't wait for the next episode, that they talk about 24/7. too me and many others it's this series. lost. once you start watching, you won't get enough. the creators did a flawless job. lost is completely unique and original, you won't see anything like it. the clever idea of "flashbacks and flashforwards" and something major and different in every season sucks your thoughts. would they ever make a series like "lost"? something so interesting and something you will always remember. it simply has stunned the world when it hit t.v. a new generation of dramatic/sci-fi. a instant classic before it reached out to the viewers.<br /><br />i'm sure you all heard of lost and it's 5 star reviews, and your annoying friend that won't stop telling you about it, so what's stopping you from watching?<br /><br />every episode leads to something new and it just doesn't stop getting better and better, you get more interested as it goes along, you learn things that are on the island that you wouldn't even think off. the characters start to become very likable, and if your the critic type you would love to see lost in further detail, things like how the relationship between characters develop and how they learn the ways to under look and take on challenges from the island. all together it's a great drama and a flawless series. i guess we just all hope that lost will not have a downfall in the episodes to come and go to far.....so if you don't watch lost, read the comment from the top again and you should change your mind. seeing is believing, so until you start watching you will never know .i strongly recommend this masterpiece of series: lost!! start watching!!! you have not seen nothing until you watch lost!!!