new york city houses one man above all others, the possibly immortal dr. anton mordrid. mordrid is the sworn protector of humanity, using his magical powers to keep his brother and rival, kabal, chained up so that he may not enslave the human race. well, wouldn't you know it? a prophesy comes true and kabal breaks free, and begins collecting elements (including platinum and uranium) for his alchemy experiments. with the help of a police woman named sam, can mordrid defeat his evil brother? "dr. mordrid" comes to me courtesy of charles band in the full moon archive collection. i had not heard of it, which is a bit odd given that i'm a big fan of jeffrey combs (mordrid) and the film isn't that old. but now it's mine and i can enjoy it again and again. the film certainly is fun in the classic full moon style. richard band provides the music (which doesn't differ much from all his other scores) and brian thompson plays the evil kabal. we even have animated dinosaur bones! what more do you want? of course, the cheese factor is high. i felt much of the film was a rip-off of the dr. strange comics. and the blue pantsuit was silly. and plot holes are everywhere (i could list at least five, but why bother). and why does the ancient symbol of mordrid and kabal look suspiciously like a hammer and sickle? combs has never been a strong actor, so he fits right in with the cheese. these aren't complaints. full moon fans have come to expect these things and devour them like crack-laced grape nuts. i'm guilty... i loved this film.<br /><br />if you're not a full moon fan, or a jeffrey combs fan... you may want to look elsewhere. but if you like the early 1990s style of movie-making and haircuts, you'll eat this up. stallone and schwarzenegger fans might like seeing brian thompson as a villain, looking as goony as ever and not being able to enunciate english beyond a third grade level. i did. i wish there was a "mordrid ii", but the company that makes a sequel to practically everything (is "gingerdead man 3" really necessary?) passed on this one.