i really enjoyed "doctor mordrid". this is a low-budget film, which may be off-putting to some, but i have no problem with it. i admire it even more for that, considering it's way more entertaining than the drivel that hollywood churns out every year. too bad this didn't get a theatrical release; i don't know about anyone else, but i would have went to see it in theatres. `doctor mordrid' is a very entertaining science fiction film that just about anyone can enjoy, especially if they're into sci-fi like i am. i don't see why this is a r-rated film; only one f-word is said, and there are no gruesome death scenes, nor is there any blood at all. the timeless rivalry between sorcerers anton and kabal (anton wanted the use his powers to save the human race, while kabal wanted to enslave them), gave the story a sense of enchantment, while the mythical plotline added charm to the story itself. basically, this a film that's just plain fun to watch. there is one unintentionally funny thing in this movie, though: seeing jeffrey combs keeping a straight face while wearing that silly blue cape and suit. that makes me laugh every time i see it. but i digress... anyway, the acting is great; the main protagonists (anton, and his lady friend, samantha), are very likable; anton is sympathetic, and hospitable, and samantha is friendly. plus, the settings were wonderful. the floating island in the other dimension was very cool setting; we're only given a glimpse of it twice, though; it would have been great to see more scenes take place here. the main setting was also very neat; anton's apartment is very roomy, and he has some cool devices, especially the monitoring system he uses to keep track of the world's occurrences. he even has a pet raven that he keeps in his apartment named edgar. overall, this a great film; it was fun to watch, and the main actors put a lot of feeling into their roles. if you can find anywhere that rents `doctor mordrid', you should rent it (or, in my case, buy it. it was definitely money well-spent)!<br /><br />my rating: 8 stars out of ten.<br /><br />