the movie "holly" is the story of a young girl who has been sold by her poor family and smuggled across the border to cambodia to work as a prostitute in the infamous "k11" red light village. in the movie, holly is waiting to be sold at a premium for her virginity when she meets patrick who is losing money and friends through gambling and bar fights. patrick and holly have an immediate bond over their "stubbornness", but this is all disrupted when holly is sold to a child trafficker and disappears. as movie goers, we are then thrust into patrick's pursuit to find holly again. holly then shows her willingness to leave this lifestyle but her confusion on what is right and wrong. "holly" carries us through the beautiful and harsh cambodia while discovering that holly is not just one girl. she is the voice of millions of children who are exploited and violated every year with no rights or protection.<br /><br />holly is less extreme than its subject matter might suggest, such as documentaries that involve 4-year olds and sexual trafficking, but does manage to shed considerable light on cambodian / vietnamese trafficking of children into prostitution. it is a moving story that helps to shed light on the horrible situation in which many children face and their struggles to trust and realize what is right and wrong.<br /><br />patrick, the antagonist of the film is an american dealer of stolen artifacts who is also losing money and friends while playing cards and getting into bar fights. while on a journey, his motorbike runs out of fuel, and he is forced to rent a room at a brothel. during his stay he comes across holly, a twelve year old girl who has been sold by her parents and is being abducted into slavery and prostitution. holly and patrick begin a friendship of trust and understanding. he discovers a clever, stubborn girl beneath the traumatized exterior and becomes determined to save her -- though their strictly platonic relationship is misinterpreted by almost everyone they meet. when she suddenly disappears, he starts a journey to track her down, without having thought if he can really help her.<br /><br />holly is able to escape on her way to another brothel, when she jumps from the truck and runs into a field filled with mines. a mine is set off by a cow and the truck driver believes she is dead, so holly is then left on her own. during patrick's journey to find holly he meets a social worker who tries to talk some sense into him and shares the facts with him that haunts the cambodian region. the idea of paying for her freedom simply fuels the demand, she explains: 30,000 children in prostitution in cambodia - next year it could be 60,000. "i'm not trying to save 60,000," he tells her, "i'm trying to save one." patrick discovers that the idea of whisking her to safety is quickly put to rest when the social worker tells him that the us will not let him adopt and, although it takes five minutes to 'save' a child, it takes five years to reintegrate her into society. patrick is not affected by the information and he continues his quest to find holly.<br /><br />the audience is then shown that holly makes it to a small town and is foraging for food with other homeless children. she is then befriended by a local policemen who seem little better than criminals with a badge, when they sell her to another brothel and then make a deal to a vietnamese businessman who then takes her virginity. holly then seems to think that this is her destiny and when patrick finally find her, she is willing to "yum yum" and "boom boom" her distant friend. patrick is utterly confused by this change in behavior, but he is not deterred in his plan to take her away from this world. in the end, he steals her away and brings her to a safe-land in the comfort of the social worker. holly is given fresh clothes, if feed and brought to a dance class, but she is forbidden to see patrick. this intense yearning to be in the comfort of patrick's friendship, she runs away from the safe house and back onto the streets in cambodia.<br /><br />meanwhile, patrick is dealing with the decision to leave the country and flee back to the united states or to stay in cambodia. his thoughts continue to revert back to holly and during a visit to a bar; an older male sees the picture he is holding and comments on his sexual appetite when he had sex with her. this enrages patrick and he hits the man and runs out of the bar. eventually, patrick is caught by the police in the eyes of holly, who is hiding behind a pole.<br /><br />the movie "holly" may make the audience want to donate money towards organizations that improve the life for these poor youngsters, and even campaign to reduce the amount of brothels in the region, but the film's dramatic weaknesses may reduce its chances of being seen by enough people to make a difference. overall, i think the concept is better as a documentary and it was not as touching as a movie. the actors did a great job of showing their raw emotion and the true confusion of the youngsters who are affected by this lifestyle, but in the end, the harsh lifestyle of the region and the desperate notions of the parents who sell their children to uphold their own starvation, does nothing to help the children's situations.