i should say at the outset there are many, many things i love about 'forbidden planet' and yes, i certainly consider it a 'classic' science-fiction film for many reasons. but the adulation it has received over the years goes a bit over the top in my opinion. no less an authority than leonard maltin says 'forbidden planet' "...is one of the most ambitious and intelligent movies of its genre." ambitious? without a doubt. intelligent? depends on what part of the film you're talking about. it certainly was the most prestigious and highly-budgeted science-fiction flick to that point. at a cost of nearly $2 million (this was 1956, remember), mgm pulled out all the stops to produce a dazzling, eye-popping outer space adventure unlike anything seen on the big screen before, even employing artists from the disney studio for some of the more elaborate special effects. 'charming' is not usually a word used to describe special effects in sci-fi movies, yet that is the one that seems most appropriate here. even the dreaded 'monster from the id' is only a well-rendered cartoon figure by the disney people, unlikely to frighten anyone over the age of 8. when i see the various sets and take note of the art design, models, costumes, etc., i am reminded of nothing so much as 'the wizard of oz,' with its gorgeously saturated colors and elaborate if not always convincing effects. so much work has gone into these films that one is inclined to smile in admiration at the effort regardless. 'forbidden planet' is wonderful to look at. the scenes take place on obvious stage sets that are fabulously decorated, matte paintings of planets and space in the background, and intricately designed miniature sand dunes and so forth to give the illusion of depth. it's a bit like watching the most elaborately-produced stage play you'd ever see. the most believable and convincing scenes are probably the ones inside the massive krell complex, where shots showing the vast depth and width of this inner space are well-done and credible. but then we get to the actors, darn it. the performances are almost uniformly awful, though in fairness one has to say the dialogue hardly ever transcends the level of adolescent locker-room humor, except for some passages of barely adequate scientific technobabble. even the great actor walter pidgeon is reduced to giving such a hammy performance, it's lugubrious at times. a very young leslie nielsen stars as the spaceship commander j.j. adams, and doesn't convey an ounce of believability or conviction in the entire film. he seems to instinctively know, thirty years ahead of time, that his true forte' lay in comedy, as there are times he seems barely able to keep a straight face reciting his lines. every forced reaction, whether it is anger or passion or solemn meditation, looks right out of a high school play. anne francis, also very young, fares a little better as the supposedly innocent alta, whom we are to believe has never seen a human male other than her father until the crew of the spaceship shows up. (alta morbius, now there's a name for you.) unfortunately, even at this early age, anne francis seems about as virginal and naive as elizabeth taylor in 'butterfield 8.' there is a good story here, buried somewhere beneath the crew-mates' leering comments about alta and yet another juvenile subplot concerning earl holliman's 'cookie,' ship's cook. (holliman turns in a horrendous performance too. i'm guessing all these actors went straight from this movie to acting school.) based on shakespeare's 'the tempest,' the story of a dead race, the krell, and the fantastic world of machines they left behind is what most people tend to remember about 'forbidden planet,' and for good reason. for a few minutes here and there, you can forget about the rest of the movie and be dazzled by the disney artists' conception of the krell underground complex. is it enough to make up for the rest of the film's shortcomings? you'll have to decide that on your own. oh, and of course there's robby the robot, every 1950's ten-year-old's idea of what a robot should look and talk like. he's funny. in places. so, 'forbidden planet' to me is a very, very mixed bag. it deserves credit for being the inspiration for a whole wave of sci-fi films and tv shows that followed, not least of which was 'star trek.' but i would suggest that anyone who thinks it's more than well-staged comic book sci-fi go back and watch it again.