i am always so frustrated that the majority of science fiction movies are really intergalactic westerns or war dramas. even star wars which is visually brilliant, has one of its central images, a futuristic "gang that couldn't shoot straight." imagine your coming upon about 600 people with conventional weapons, most of them having an open shot, and they miss.<br /><br />i have read much science fiction, and wish there were more movies for the thinking person. forbidden planet, one of the earliest of the genre, is still one of the very best. the story is based on a long extinct civilization, the krell, who created machines which could boost the intelligence of any being by quantum leaps. unfortunately, what they hadn't bargained for, is that the brain is a center for other thoughts than intellectual. the primitive aspect of the brain, the id, as freud called it, is allowed to go unchecked. it is released in sleep, a bad dream come to corporeal existence. walter pigeon, dr. morbius, is the one who has jacked his brain to this level, and with it has built machines and defenses that keep him barely one step ahead of the horrors of the recesses of his own mind. his thoughts are creating horrors that he soon will not be able to defend. the krell, a much superior species, could not stop it; it destroyed them. the landing party has never been of great interest to me. the rest of the actors are pretty interchangeable. ann francis is beautiful and naive, and certainly would have produced quite a reaction in the fifties adolescent male. her father's ire is exacerbated by her innocence and the wolfy fifties' astronauts (for they are more like construction workers on the make than real astronauts). they are always trying to figure out "dames." the cook is a great character, with his obsession for hooch. robbie the robot has much more personality than most of the crew, and one wonders if mr. spock may not be a soulmate to the literal thinking of this artificial creature. the whole movie is very satisfying because the situation is the star. morbius can't turn back and so he is destined to destroy himself and everything with him. there are few science fiction films that are worth seeing more than once; this is one that can coast right into the 21st century.