i first watched this movie on its release in 1987 and was greatly affected emotionally, through a combination of guilt at what my fellow white human beings could do to innocent people and the reluctance of the outside world to really investigate these atrocities against man.<br /><br />particularly moving was the funeral of steve biko, made even more vivid and hard-hitting by the south african anthem played at the time. i have long believed that this movie achieved what nobody else had managed - to open the eyes of the world to what was really happening in south africa. i consider myself to be a normal right thinking person and i can attest to how this film changed my whole way of thinking about not just south africa, but how we as white people perceive black people. i have never seen any difference between people of any colour or creed, but after viewing this film i physically changed my life and have spent the last 17 years living in a predominantly black country and helping many people rise above their present standard of living and achieve that which they would not have thought possible. the greatest reward i can honestly say i have received - to be able to say that in my own small way i have contributed and redressed the balance a little. but if more people thought like me and actually did something to help black people without seeking reward then the entire black population of this planet would be a little better off.<br /><br />i challenge any right thinking person to watch cry freedom from beginning to end and not feel that emotion tugging at your heartstrings as you witness the 700 schoolchildren brutally shot dead in sharpville for refusing to learn afrikaans, the senseless murder of steve biko, such a champion for his own people's rights, and then, ultimately, to understand that all this is not merely a film, albeit a magnificent one, but that it all actually happened and less than 30 years ago.<br /><br />yes, my friends, watch this movie and then see if you can go out afterwards and party hard. i couldn't. i was too upset at knowing the truth. that is the hallmark of a great film. it was obviously the intention of sir richard attenborough to get this message over about south africa. of course he has achieved it. unless you happen to support apartheid. god help you.