"the true story of the friendship that shook south africa and awakened the world." <br /><br />richard attenborough, who directed "a bridge too far" and "gandhi", wanted to bring the story of steve biko to life, and the journey and trouble that journalist donald woods went through in order to get his story told. the films uses wood's two books for it's information and basis - "biko" and "asking for trouble".<br /><br />the film takes place in the late 1970's, in south africa. south africa is in the grip of the terrible apartheid, which keeps the blacks separated from the whites and classifies the whites as the superior race. the blacks are forced to live in shantytowns on the outskirts of the cities and towns, and they come under frequent harassment by the police and the army. we are shown a dawn raid on a shantytown, as bulldozers and armed police force their way through the camp beating and even killing the inhabitants. then we are introduced to donald woods (kevin kline), who is the editor of a popular newspaper. after publishing a negative story about black activist steve biko (denzel washington), woods goes to meet with him. the two are wary of each other at first, but they soon become good friends and biko shows the horrors of the apartheid system from a black persons point of view to woods. this encourages woods to speak out against what's happening around him, and makes him desperate to bring steve biko's story out of the clutches of the white man's south africa and to the world. soon, steve biko is arrested and is killed in prison. now woods and his family are daring to escape from south africa to england, where woods can publish his book about steve biko and the apartheid.<br /><br />when i first heard of "cry freedom", i was under the impression that it was a movie completely dedicated to the life of steve biko. i had never actually heard of steve biko before i seen this film, as the events in this film were really before my time. but it's more about the story of donald woods and his journey across the border into lesotho as he tried to elude the south african officials. woods was put on a five year type house arrest after steve biko was killed. so in order to publish his manuscript on steve biko, he had to escape. because the manuscript would be considered treason in south africa and that could have resulted in woods meeting a fate similar to that of biko's. the real donald woods and his wife acted as consultants to this film.<br /><br />denzel washington is only in the film for the first hour, and i was disappointed with that as i was expecting to see him for the entire movie. but he was amazing as steve biko, and captured his personality from what i've read really well and his accent sounded perfect. his performance earned him an oscar nomination for best supporting actor. kevin kline delivers a excellent and thought-evoking performance as donald woods, and penelope wilton is excellent as his wife wendy.<br /><br />filming took place in zimbabwe, as needless to say problems arose when they tried to film it in south africa. while in south africa, the south african gestapo followed the film crew everywhere, so they got the bad vibes and they pulled out and went to neighbouring zimbabwe instead. despite everything, and the fact that the apartheid didn't end 'til seven years later, "cry freedom" wasn't banned in south africa. but cinemas showing the movie received bomb threats.<br /><br />richard attenborough brings the horrors of the apartheid to the screen with extreme force and determination. he doesn't hold back at the end of the movie when showing what was supposed to be a peaceful protest by students in a shantytown, turns into a massacre when police open fire on them. the film ends with the names of all the anti-apartheid movers who died in prison, and the explanations for their deaths. many had "no explanation". quite a few were "epilepsy", which is hard to believe, and many more either fell from the top of the stairs or were "suicide from hanging". no one will ever know what really happened to them, but i think it's fair to say that none of these men died at their own hands, but at the hands of others; or to be more precise, at the hands of the police. <br /><br />"cry freedom" is a must-see movie for it's portrayal and story of steve biko. it's also a searing and devastating portrayal of a beautiful land divided and in the hellish grips of racial segregation and violence.