had this been the original 1914 version of tess of the storm country (also starring mary pickford), i probably would have rated it a lot higher, as this sort of extreme melodrama and sentimentality was pretty typical of the teens. however, by 1922, this film was already starting to show its age. and, compared to many of ms. pickford's other films (such as daddy longlegs, sparrows, my best girl and suds), tess comes up a tad short--and not every pickford film merits a 10 (even if she was "america's sweetheart"). now this isn't to say that it's a bad film--it certainly isn't. but, i just can't see how so many have given this film a 10.<br /><br />the film has a very long and complicated plot--especially because most films of the era were shorter. a rich old crank builds a mansion at the top of a hill next to the river. at the bottom of the hill are some dirty squatters who he hates but who he cannot evict. so he tries to come up with a variety of ways to get them off the land. one ends up in tragedy, when his daughter's fianc'e is killed in a scuffle with the po' folks. the man accused of the murder is dear old mary's father, though he is innocent. to make things a lot worse, the only witness to the real murder won't talk and the dead man had gotten his fianc'ee pregnant! so, at this point, we have an innocent man in prison waiting to be executed and a pregnant lady afraid to tell her sanctimonious father she is "in the family way". there's a ton more to the film, such as the crank's son falling in love with mary, but it's best you just see the film for yourself.<br /><br />the film excels in some ways. the plot, while very complicated, is also rather interesting and the cinematography is top-notch. the very final scene is also pretty cute. however, there is so much overt sentimentality you can practically cut it with a knife. mary is so good and so sweet and so plucky, at times the viewer might find it all a bit hard to take. while it worked great in 1922 (making her the biggest star in the world), today it's very dated. this is not true of all her films, but this one certainly is.<br /><br />by the way, the image entertainment dvd is of decent quality, though a few scenes are badly degraded--something that isn't very surprising considering the age of the film. also, the only extras included are a brief filmography.