while visiting romania with his cia dad, tony(adam arkin), quite a talented high school quarterback seen as the savior to lead his team finally to a victory over rival simpson, is told by a would-be palm-reader(..in romania, the people are not allowed many books, so she took up palm reading)that he would be bitten by a werewolf("when the moon is full, don't make any appointments..you will be busy."). well, who would have thunk it..tony is in fact bitten and his life would be forever changed. after his father unfortunately dies in a mishap within his bomb shelter(!)under odd circumstances(firing at his werewolf son inside a metallic bomb shelter isn't a very good idea, especially if the bullet doesn't leave the room and bounces around like a pinball gone berserk), tony travels the land through endless years, until he's tired of packing, and returns decades(..and many us presidents)later to hopefully lead his football team to a win over simpson..a task he abandoned long ago. what was once a very white, clean-cut high school has indeed changed into a ghetto of drug use, violence, and perversion. to get an idea of what the early 80's full moon high school's prom party resembles, think studio 54 with teenagers..<br /><br />larry cohen's parody of werewolf flicks, among others things, is crammed full of gags, homages, and in-jokes. my favorite sequences contain one in the sex-ed classroom where tony reveals to the 80's class his werewolf transformation and the introductory scene to dr. brand(alan arkin, who steals the film when kenneth mars isn't on screen), quite possibly the worst psychiatrist on earth. his task to talk down a jumper leads to two men falling off a balcony..the jumper and a fireman (trying, at first, to talk him out of it), both fuming mad at brand! brand even tries to get tony to sign a waver for his body's being donated to science so he can get his wife a fur coat! kenneth mars had me rolling in the floor as a homosexual football coach(..and later in the 80's as the principal)who likes to pat his players on the behind..his scene where tony's unloading the truth to the sex-ed class is classic. the film is loaded with inspired casting choices..just littered with funny characters and the cast interpretations..such as ed mcmahon as a very conservative military blowhard who actually looks identical to joseph mccathy standing next to his photo in the bomb shelter(..always talking about commies), joanne nail as bulging eyed ricky in present day who falls for the werewolf, elizabeth hartman(a patch of blue)as a mousy, nerdy sexually molested(..and molester)teacher who finds an attraction towards tony, james dixon as a deputy(..his great scene has him stealing a line from his police chief reciting it to dr. brand who begins mouthing the words to himself for memorization), roz kelly as jane, an undyingly devoted female desiring tony for only herself constantly demanding he ravish her, and bill kirchenbauer as flynn, tony's long-time pal and now the police chief who only got jane after his friend left town. can not forget jm j bullock as flynn's closeted gay son trying to fit in at the school hoping to find a dame with hilarious results.<br /><br />i like how the film pays homage to the werewolf genre such as when he's on the prowl..he's often referred to in the papers as jack the nipper because he likes to bite his victims on the cheek..and i'm not talking face. he's seen more as an annoyance than danger. the homages to carrie and psycho are nice, and the violin shtick is also amusing. cohen tosses so many zingers at the viewer, eventually one has to stick. obviously in a comedy such as this, not every joke hits it's mark, but many do. the cast makes this worthwhile. the film looks cheap on the typical larry cohen budget. notice the 50's scenes where the obvious old cast members that would show up down the road wear glaring wigs. loved adam in the lead..he is the perfect foil for the gags that follow him and the zingers he lets fly from cohen's script. the film moves quickly, rarely catching a breath. i liked this horror comedy more than most it seems.