most of the bad reviews on this website blame "hood of the living dead" for one (or more) of the following reasons: 1) it is a low-budget movie with virtually no acting; 2) it was so bad it made me laugh 3) it is something i could do myself. i won't even discuss the first point because it is a very subjective matter whether you like low-budget and independent stuff or not. i must say, however, that i still fail to understand people renting such a movie as "hood of the living dead" and then looking surprised when they realize it is not as polished and cute as a romantic comedy with lindsay lohan or matthew mc conaughey. as for the second point, i really don't see what's so wrong with laughing. i personally like to laugh, and love movies that make me to, be they comedies or horror flicks. when in "hammerhead" i saw this girl stepping into a puddle and the shark-man came out of it to eat her, i just cracked up. and i was grateful that the director made such a stupid scene and gave me ten seconds of pure fun. honestly, laughing just makes me feel good, while it seems that many people writing reviews see it as a bad bad thing. if you only want to feel sad and scared while watching a movie, "hood of the living dead" and low-budget flicks are definitely not for you. but please don't come and tell us that you find them laughable. we already know it. this is most probably why we decided to watch the movie in first place. however, it is the third point that leaves totally baffled. just several years ago people were lining up out of theaters to see "blair witch project", which is a way more rudimentary, boring, plot-less and bad-acted movie than "hood of the living dead" (and takes itself way too seriously too). moreover, half a million people go on youtube every day to see the short films of "lonelygirl15", which is certainly something everyone with a cute girlfriend, a room and a webcam could do! not to talk about all of the even more amateurish videos you can find there. why don't people blame those clips for bad acting and non-existing plot? i think it is one of the best things of our times that everyone, with affordable technology and a bunch of friends, can make their own movies and share them with people that have similar interests. and i feel a certain admiration for people who spend their weekends with their friends making a honestly bad (yet refreshing) piece of trash like this rather than shopping at the mall or playing video games alone. leave aside your biases and your desire to sound like a smart film critic by attacking b-movies, and you'll see that "hood of the living dead" can bring you almost as much fun as it did to its makers! if you have a taste for refreshing and enjoyable home-made horror movies, i recommend "zombiez", "the ghosts of edendale", "the killer eye", "monster man", "don't look in the basement", "the worst horror movie ever made", "redneck zombies", "jesus christ vampyre-slayer" and "habit".