this little seen movie is a languid and laid-back giallo. it veers away from some of the clich'e's of the genre and adopts a looser approach. it's about a woman searching for her missing lover; a psychiatrist who has suddenly vanished for no apparent reason. her search leads her to a villa populated by a group of eccentric individuals. in true giallo style, murder is never far away.<br /><br />the cast is really rather good. we have aldofo celi (thunderball), alida valli (suspiria), horst frank (cat o' nine tails) and a very young sybil danning (80's scream queen). the lead actress is rosemary dexter, and while i am not familiar with her, she does a good job in leading the picture.<br /><br />one of the defining features of eye in the labyrinth is its music. atypically for a giallo it features a jazz-rock fusion soundtrack. this score, composed by roberto nicolosi, is reminiscent of miles davis, especially his work on in a silent way. it's an excellent soundtrack and really gives this movie a different feel than most gialli. the fusion groove accentuates the languid atmosphere and compliments the sunny, sea-front scenery that the film is mostly made up of.<br /><br />this is a giallo so we really need to talk about the murder set-pieces. well, this film falls a little short in this regard. it's certainly not devoid of them but they are few and far between. the opening dream-murder being probably the best on offer as well as a memorable burning car sequence. but this really isn't a particularly violent film. still, i don't think it should disappoint too many seasoned fans of the genre. the mystery is fairly compelling and it has enough eccentric characters (the idiot boy saro and that unsettlingly inappropriate dubbed accent?) and moments of the bizarre to satisfy; while the sleaze-factor is upheld with a smattering of nudity throughout.<br /><br />eye in the labyrinth plays like a giallo version of an agatha christie mystery, as it features a group of unsympathetic characters in a villa, all under suspicion of murder; we have the obligatory flashbacks detailing their connections with the final hours of the (highly unsympathetic) murder victim. while this isn't a grade-a example of the genre, it's certainly an appealingly different one, as it doesn't borrow too heavily from other films of the sub-genre. for giallo enthusiasts i give this a thumbs up and hope one day it's given a nice dvd transfer. it certainly deserves the treatment.