i haven't seen the original "incredible journey" since i was a child, so i can't really compare the two versions. this version tells the story of three animals, two dogs and a cat, whose owners leave them with friends in the countryside when the father of the family has to take a new job in san francisco. the pets, believing that they have been abandoned, escape and set out on a long homeward journey through wilderness.<br /><br />this story might have been most easily filmed as a cartoon, but both versions are in fact live-action films made using real animals. one major difference is that in the later version the animals speak in human voices, giving each its own distinct personality, something that was not done in the original film. (a similar device of talking animals has been used in other recent children's films such as "racing stripes"). some critics have been rather sniffy about the use of this device, but my own view is that giving the animals distinctive personalities of their own helps to strengthen the film rather than weaken it. the animals were voiced by big-name stars, don ameche, michael j. fox and sally fields.<br /><br />both dogs are male, and their relationship parallels that between many humans in "buddy-buddy" movies. shadow, a golden retriever, is the wise, experienced older dog; chance the younger one is brash, cocky and impulsive. to british eyes chance looks like a boxer, but is actually an american bulldog, which is apparently a different breed to its british cousin. sassy the cat is female with a rather prim and proper personality. she is very proud of her status as a cat, which in her eyes makes her vastly superior to any mere dog. ("cats rule, dogs drool!").<br /><br />from an adult viewpoint the film has a number of faults; it can be sentimental, some of the incidents (such as the one in which the animals manage to catapult a mountain lion into the river) are quite incredible, and the human characters are all completely forgettable. this, however, is a film which is mainly aimed at children, and i suspect they will enjoy it immensely. certainly, any animal-loving child will do so. (comments by some professional critics such as james berardinelli, who complained that the animals' voices lessened the film's "grandeur", only serve to strengthen my view that professional critics are not always the best guides to children's movies. i doubt if many playground conversations about "homeward bound" concentrated on its supposed grandeur).<br /><br />one thing adults will appreciate is the photography of california's sierra nevada mountains. they may also appreciate the film's blend of humour and excitement as the runaway pets encounter perils such as bears, mountain lions and porcupines in the wilderness. this is a very enjoyable family film. 7/10