this comment does contain spoilers!!<br /><br />there are few actors that have an intangible to them. that innate quality which is an amalgamation of charisma, panache and swagger. it's the quality that can separate good actors from the truly great. i think george clooney has it and so does jack nicholson. you can look at clooney's subtle touches in scenes like his one word good-bye to andy garcia in ocean's 11 when they just utter each other's name disdainfully. "terry." "danny." you can pick any number of jack's performances dating as far back as five easy pieces in the diner to a few good men and his court room interrogation scene. these guys just have it. you can add denzel washington to the small and exclusive list of actors who exudes that terrific trait in everything he does. if you look at some of his explosive borderline diatribes in the siege to his impressive tribute to malcolm x in spike lee's film of the same name, you can see that there is no finer an actor working today. i don't mention all of this to insinuate that man on fire is perfect just because of denzel's work, but he is definitely the cog of the production. i was literally mesmerized with some of his scenes that are raw, emotional and incendiary all at the same time.<br /><br />washington plays creasy a former spy or cia agent or one of those covert government operatives. he has pretty much hit rock bottom as he has become disillusioned with the life that he has led. he has killed and perhaps done things that are best left unsaid and this has made him a hardened and bitter man. his friend and perhaps mentor, played very reservedly by christopher walken, is living in mexico making a very comfortable living by providing body guard services for the rich. apparently the kidnapping business in mexico is so vibrant that these paid former s.e.a.l.s and such can do very well while providing a needed service. creasey needs the work and accepts a job with a well to do family who seems to be in some financial difficulty. marc anthony is fine as samuel, radha mitchell is tantalizingly sexy as his wife lisa and dakota fanning is just unbelievably and precociously brilliant as pita. i don't know how a child of her age can have such range to play the characters that she does but her interpretation of pita is nothing short of oscar worthy. the film's entire first half is dependent on the relationship between pita and creasy and if there was a weaker actress in the role, perhaps that emotional synergy would not have come across so succinctly. but fanning is nothing short of remarkable in the role.<br /><br />it is the relationship between pita and creasy that drives this film to the apex of cinema. together they are perfect and there is a real bond developed between them. tony scott directs with a frenetic urgency and his eye for visual flare has never been better. i am interested to see how his next film, domino, turns out. i think scott is one of today's under rated directors and with more films like this one, his name will surely be elevated to icon status.<br /><br />the story has creasy really taking to pita, and vis-ca versa. there is a definite connection between the two of them and perhaps it stems from the fact that although pita loves her dad, he is not around much. he is a philanthropist and obviously has little time to spend with his family. soon, creasy is taking pita to her swimming competition. he is reading her bedtime stories and she is naming her teddy bear "creasy". it's not just a friendship between them, it is more of a kinship, and a deep parental love seems to be present. <br /><br />the film changes gears when pita does get kidnapped and held for ransom and creasy is is almost fatally injured trying to protect her. this is where the story becomes thick with innuendo and ripe with deceit as the plot pieces get unraveled like an onion. and this is where denzel becomes a tour de force. like i said earlier, i have seen denzel give some outstanding performances in films like crimson tide and training day, but never have i seen him like this. he is a man possessed and with the possibility of pita being dead, he becomes a literal man on fire. it rages in him as he hunts down and dishes out his brand of comeuppance. denzel's anger and acerbity are ubiquitous and not easily quelled as he hunts down each person responsible for pita's violation. this all vigilante justice as the mexican authorities always seem to be one step behind. <br /><br />also what is paramount to this film's audacious brilliance is that there are few films that actually give the criminals their due comeuppance. i have often been frustrated to watch films where the bad guys get let off easily. they inflict all kinds of torment for the entire film and then they take a bullet and die. but not in this film. writer brian helgeland sees to it that retribution here is unequivocal and it is painful. the perpetrators here feel creasy's wrath and they experience the torment that he unleashes. there is nothing gimmicky about his brand of justice. he needs information and someone loses a finger. he wants answers and a homemade bomb is placed in places that are meant for other things. there is no punches pulled here and this is one of the true strengths of the film.<br /><br />man on fire is one the five best films of 2004. now that it is out on dvd, my recommendation is to get the se. it is loaded with bonus features that include about 6 hours of documentaries and different commentary tracks. 10/10