maybe it's because i looked up the history of the irish troubles in the 1920s and then the sad civil war that engulfed the free state after the signing of the treaty before watching this movie. anyway, the sudden turn at the end brought tears to my eyes.<br /><br />victor mclaglen isn't as famous today as he was back then, and he should be better remembered. in this film, i think he's playing himself as he would have been without his innate talent and brains. for example, the scenes where his buddy in the crowd is challenging men to fight with him is probably quite reminiscent of what mclaglen actually did in earlier years, when he was a world-class bare-knuckles boxer. john ford is partly responsible for that; the imdb trivia section shows how he tricked mclaglen into getting a really bad hangover for the trial scene. this director also could bring out a lot in his actors, even without such tricks. mostly, though, mclaglen is firmly in control, especially when his character is almost totally blotto (which is difficult for an actor to do believably), and he also plays gypo nolan with a depth and emotional power that is surprising for someone who has only seen mclaglen later in his career, in "the quiet man." i especially like the contrast between this role as an ira man and the much more obviously controlled performance he gave as the ira man denis hogan in "hangman's house." <br /><br />in "the quiet man," of course, mclaglen is a country squire at odds with the local ira. victor mclaglen was big and bully, in the old-fashioned sense of the word, but he was a good actor, too, and capable of wide range and fine nuances of performance that we just wouldn't expect of a such a man today. it's a rather sad comment on our own set of expectations and prejudices.<br /><br />ford, as usual, packs a lot into a little bit of film. all the characters are excellent (though the commandant's mostly american accent is distracting) -- note: there be spoilers ahead! -- knowing that gypo once drew the short straw and was ordered to kill a man but let him talk his way out of it instead, we really empathize with the man who draws the short straw for executing gypo, and the humanity he shows, most notably when they go to take gypo in mary's room. <br /><br />john ford really shows his genius here, taking what could have been a gruesome and yet expected outcome to the whole story and instead using it to set up a totally unexpected and yet very satisfying ending that makes us think not just of gypo and the other characters, but of poor ireland during that tortured time.