with the release of peter jackson's famed "lord of the rings" trilogy, it is even easier to dismiss ralph bakshi's 1978 animated lord of the rings film as inferior. i agree with the majority that jackson's trilogy is the essential film adaptation of tolkien's work, but that does not prevent me from enjoying bakshi's ambitious pioneering effort. jackson has admitted that he received at least some inspiration from seeing bakshi's film and there are some clear similarities between their adaptations.<br /><br />the film's colorful picturesque backdrops are excellent and the score is memorable. i was for the most part satisfied by the drawings of the characters. the pairs of pippin and merry and eowyn and galadriel are mostly indistinguishable from each other visually, the balrog and treebeard were unimpressive, but these points didn't bother me very much. however, the nazgul are aptly drawn and made sufficiently eerie. the only character representation i was bothered by was sam's; he was made to look unbecomingly silly.<br /><br />this film is novel for its animation techniques. in addition to hand-drawn characters, live actors are incorporated into the animation through rotoscoping. it is quite apparent which characters are hand-drawn and which are rotoscoped, but none the less i found that the film's style was a novelty. the use of rotoscoped live actors for the battle scenes was a good decision and helped these scenes turn out well.<br /><br />the voice acting was generally of high quality. particularly good was john hurt, who provided an authoritative voice for aragorn. aragorn isn't a favorite character of mine from the stories, but backed by john hurt's voice he was my favorite character in this adaptation. my other favorite was william squire, whose voice is appropriately strong for gandalf. the only actor who seemed inappropriate was michael scholes as sam, whose voice acting was irritating and added to sam's unfortunately silly image. the only other bothersome part of the voice acting is the mispronunciation of character and place names. particularly strange was the decision to frequently have saruman referred to as "aruman".<br /><br />in producing this film, ralph bakshi expected to have the ability to produce two films. hence, this film contains about half the story, from the start of "the fellowship of the ring" to the end of the battle at helm's deep in "the two towers". the obvious implication of this is that the film's story is a highly condensed version of the story from the books. i enjoy the original stories and more thorough adaptations, but the liberties taken to compress the story didn't bother me, even the choice to leave arwen out of the story. enough of the key elements of the story were in this film to keep me engaged for the duration and there was even a novelty in being able to breeze through half the lord of the rings story in 132 minutes. the battle scenes were impressive and in particular the orc march to and battle at helm's deep were tremendous.<br /><br />ralph bakshi's version of "the lord of the rings" isn't perfect and no doubt a number of lord of the rings readers lament the cuts to the story. however, for me the drawbacks of this film were minor compared to the thrill of seeing an effective adaptation of half of a great trilogy. my only strong lament is that i am unable to see the second part of this "first great tale" of the lord of the rings since bakshi was not given the budget to create a sequel.