h.g. wells in 1936 was past his prime and the books of his that will survive were long gone by. he was coming to the end of his life and he was confronted to his dream gone sour. at the very beginning of the 20th century he defended the idea that the world was doomed because the evolution of species, natural biology, on one side, and marxism, market economy on the other side, were necessarily leading to the victory of the weaker over the stronger due to the simple criterion of number. the weaker were the mass of humanity and the stronger were the minority elite. he defended then a strict eugenic policy with the elimination of all those who were in a way or another weakening the human race. first of all the non-caucasian, with the only exception of the jews who would disappear thanks to mixed marriages. then, within the caucasian community all those who were not healthy, the alcoholics, the mentally disabled, all those who were genetically disabled, etc. that was not hitler. that was h.g. wells and that was not after the first world war. that was more than ten years before. and twenty years before the first world war he had published the time machine that defended the idea that the human "race", left to its own means and due to the vaster cosmological evolution of life on earth, would see the differentiation of the human "race" into two "species": the working class would become a subterranean laborious species and the bourgeoisie would become an idle surface species. the point was in the novel that the surface sophisticated and weak idle species was the prey of the other species who were the predators. wells was convinced humanity was in danger and politicians were supposed to stop this evolution by imposing a strict eugenic policy. the first countries to follow this injunction were the scandinavian countries who were also the last to drop it only very recently for some of them. the film here proposes a vision of 2036 with a world government that is absolutely dictatorial in the fact that there is no election, no parliament, no really democratic institution, only peace imposed by military conquest, and the government is dominated by one man or at the most one man and his few councilors. and in that future world all, absolutely all human beings are caucasians. wells was able to imagine humanity being completely white by 2036. amazing. wells envisaged some kind of a rebellion but that would be short lived and lead to nothing at all. the last sentences are the vision of this white civilization conquering the whole universe when contemplating the sky and its stars and planets. frightening. and that was produced in 1936. all the more frightening since nowhere the slightest mention of hitlerism, fascism, japanese imperialism or stalinism can be found. but it is essential to have that film in a good restored edition because it is crucial to have a full vision of h.g. wells. we are obviously very far away from the brave new world of absolute "democratic" social selection, or the animal farm of the dictatorship of the porcine proletariat, or the 1984 of the abstract mediatic dictatorship of big brother. this vision is at least just as much frightening as the three others. and i only want to compare wells with the british science fiction writers of his days. it would be unfair to go beyond. this reveals that in england in these first three decades of the 20th century there was a tremendous fear among intellectuals: the fear that the future would only be somber, bleak and in the form of an impasse of some kind.<br /><br />dr jacques coulardeau, university paris dauphine, university paris 1 pantheon sorbonne & university versailles saint quentin en yvelines