"things to come" movie review by kwrice<br /><br />here is another wonder filled science fiction film from a different time and place. it is a film i've only seen in truncated parts, but art should be taken as a whole. i experienced this film as it was designed, in a darkened theatre, on a silver screen, with whirling reels of film and an audience to share it with. that audience and myself were effected by this film! one woman who lived through ww ii was choked up by the remembered ravages of war and replenished by the positive, albeit corny, ending.<br /><br />the things that caught my attention from the beginning were the initial credits. the first thing we see is "h.g. wells" in bold angular block copy much like the "superman" of yore. it is not the film title, but the creator's title, and then before any other humans, such as actors or production, are listed, the director william cameron menzies is up there! who? you've probably seen his work before, "around the world in 80 days," "pride of the yankees," and "gone with the wind." he did not direct after this sci-fi epic opera he and mr. wells created, but his film imagery, sets, and design are very recognizable.<br /><br />that imagery is very effecting. i recognized images from many other films, that have paid homage to this classic. the recent "hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy" is obvious, along with bugs bunny, "fantasia," "monty python and the holy grail," "sky captain & the world of tomorrow," "night of the living dead" and more that i know of, but which titles escape me. this is real special effects here, scenes now done with cgi are done with actors, big sets, and detailed models. this film was made in 1936, and it's obvious it meant something to the other auteurs. wells and menzies also worked with bliss, doing the music, and korda, the producer, to create a masterpiece with message, warning, and sermon.<br /><br />the lines the shakespearean actors cedric hardwicke, ralph richardson and raymond massey speak, sometimes sound preachy, but i also heard lines i still hear now. "these toys children have nowadays are nothing like i had when i was child," "it'll help develop their coordination," "what do we need books for, what do we need to read for?", "we don't need cars, there's nowhere to go, we have all we need right here," "there will be no war." but war there is! the naive citizens of "everytown" refuse to see the literal writing on the wall. the never-ending war explodes christmas eve. the little boy wanting to be a good soldier like his daddy is an image that will likely always stay with me. this is the world of 1936 that wore blinders to hitler's appeasement. this war does not end. the poison gas of the aerial wars segues into the second act.<br /><br />it is another dark age. no government, no services, and people carried along and cheering the war that no one remembers anything about. plague, warlords and bullying to get the planes flying for fuel that no longer exists. loved ones are shot in the street, before they can carry the plague to another. midway there is a marvelous vignette about the rolls royce, that is a much needed respite mid-way. into this lands a futuristic plane that heralds the future.<br /><br />that future is the third act. the world has rebuilt itself with the help of that "puny animal, man." helicopters fly in this film, before they were even invented. the plumber's helper has other uses than the dalek's or glenn miller's. wide screen plasma screens beguiling the masses, and orators inciting the people to tear it all down. "beware the concussion, you have been warned!", the city father warns the riotous populace. so be warned, this film might hit you like it hit me. there are some cute miscues and miscalculations, but the thought provoking idealism is what is really worth pondering again, and i do want to see this artful film again. others criticize mr. wells vision. it is very easy to work with 20/20 hindsight regarding things, costumes and foley miscues. i believe mr. wells' "things to come" is not about things, but is actually about concepts, social trends, and philosophical ideals. besides, we are now just beginning the new millennium and are not in the time still to come. this is not cheap cardboard british science fiction, but worthwhile epic filmed opera, sans singing, that as a whole concept overcomes some minor dated shortcomings.