this film is to my mind the weakest film in the original star wars trilogy, for a variety of reasons. however it emerges at the end of the day a winner, despite all its flaws. it's still a very good film, even if a lot of its quality depends on the characters that have been built up in the superior 2 installments.<br /><br />one problem here is the look of the film, which isn't very consistent with the other 2 films. i put a lot of that down to the departure of producer gary kurtz. the first 2 films have that dirty, lived-in look with all the technology and so forth. in "jedi" on the other hand even the rebels look like they just stepped out of a shower and had their uniforms dry cleaned. this makes for a much less textured film. also the creatures were excessively muppet-like and cutesy. at this point it seems like the film-makers were more concerned with creating the templates for future action figures than with the quality of the film itself.<br /><br />another aspect is its lack of originality. where "star wars" created a whole new experience in cinema and "empire" brought us to alien worlds of swamps, ice, and clouds, "jedi" lamely re-cycled the locations of the first film. first we are back on the desert planet tatooine, and then we are watching them face another death star (maybe the emperor couldn't think of anything new... but you'd think lucas or kasdan could). also we have these ewoks, who really are just detestable made-for-mattel teddy bears, in a recycled version of what was supposed to be the big wookie-fight at the end of "star wars" if they hadn't run out of cash. it just feels like lazy construction.<br /><br />the most unfortunate aspect of "jedi" for me is the weak handling of the han solo character. whereas he is central to the plot of the first 2 films here he is struggling for screen time, trading one liners with the droids. instead of a real drama we're stuck with the lame pretense that han is still convinced leia loves luke -- as if the conclusion of "empire" where she confessed her love of him had never happened. the whole thing is very contrived and barely conceals the fact that the solo character was not part of this film's central story after his rescue. ford, for his part, looks bored and lacks the style that distinguished his earlier performances. this is more like a 1990s ford performance, bored and looking "above" the film itself. fisher for her part is visibly high in some scenes. lando, an interesting character introduced in "empire", here is stuck as the ostensible person we care about in the giant space battle. only hamill, given an interesting development in the luke character, is really able to do anything new or interesting with his character. probably he was the only major actor in the film who still cared about his work. and to be fair the script gives him a lot more to do than the other characters. really it is his story and the other characters are only there as part of the package. ian mcdiarmid does excellent work as well as the emperor. the film would sink if he had been too far over the top (as he was at times in the new films).<br /><br />visually and in terms of effects work, other than the "clean" look of everything it's hard to find fault. jabba is a very effective animatronic character, one of the most elaborate ever constructed. the space battles towards the end are very impressive.<br /><br />ultimately this film coasts to success based on the accomplishments of its forebears. but on its own, it is a satisfying piece of entertainment and imho far superior to any of lucas' later productions.