the dentist is a really good thriller. and pretty disturbing. i think we can all agree that the chances of running into a psycho dentist are much bigger than running into monsters, vampires or zombies. that's exactly why this movie is so scary. during this film, you'll probably think about your own dentist a few times. whether he's capable of doing such things...you better pray his wife doesn't cheat on him. that's what the story is all about. a respected dentist in la snaps when he finds out his wife is cheating on him with the pool-boy. ( that must be the greatest profession in the world, by the way. poolboys always take advantage of the housewives when the husband is at his work) from then on our dentist, dr. feinstone, can only thing about taking revenge. he can't concentrate on his patients anymore and a couple of them get hurt. things aren't made easier for our dentist when he's chased by an annoying tax-controller, a curious cop and a suspicious staff member of his. at one point, dr. feinstone can't take it anymore. now he's not only after his wife but after everyone who comes near him.. the dentist is written and directed by brian yuzna and co-written by stuart gordon. you can take that as a recommendation to itself. these 2 persons already gave us a few great horror movies ( and personal favorites of mine ) like re-animator, from beyond and society. with the dentist, they succeed once more to bring an entertaining and very chilling thriller. this film came right on time actually. the decade hadn't brought us many great horror films so far. i'm not at all saying this is a masterpiece, but it's a nice change. corbin bensen is great as the dentist obsessed by hygiene. i remember him mostly as a comedy or drama actor, but he can sure handle a psychotic character. the rest of the cast does good work too. the woman who plays feinstone's wife is really attractive. also, it was great to see ken foree acting again. the actor from my all time favorite movie dawn of the dead plays the cop in this film. yuzna casted him in from beyond too, 15 years ago and i thank him for that. i don't recommend this movie to everyone (if you have a weak stomach, i'll advise you to skip it) but if you do watch it, you'll enjoy it very much. you'll be disgusted...but that's an extra reason, i think. it's been a while since i was really freaked out by watching a film. it's a great topic to handle in the genre and yuzna does it in a great way. too bad this film was followed by a completely unnecessary sequel. my humble opinion on the dentist ... 8/10