i remember this movie in particular when i was a teenager, my best friend was telling me all about this movie and how it freaked her out as a kid. of course being the blood thirsty gal that i am, i had to go out and find this movie. now i don't know how to put this without loosing credibility, so i'm just going to say it, i actually had fun watching this movie! i know that it's stupid, not the best story and beyond bloody and gruesome, but that's what i was looking for and the dentist delivers in the scares, blood, sex, and crazy psychopaths. sometimes i just need a fun movie like this to just let loose and get grossed out by.<br /><br />dr. alan feinstone is obsessed with order and cleanliness. on the day of his wedding anniversary, he spies his wife brooke having sex with their filthy pool man, matt. at his dental practice, feinstone's first patient of the day is young jody saunders, there for his very first dental appointment. feinstone begins to clean jody's teeth. everything goes smoothly at first, until he imagines that jody's teeth are brown and rotten. his dental pick slips, stabbing jody in the gums. jody's mother picks up her crying, bleeding child and leaves angrily. feinstone sees his second patient, beauty queen april reign. alone with april, feinstone sedates her with nitrous oxide so that he can fill a cavity in one of her molars. as she drifts off into unconsciousness, feinstone imagines that she has transformed into his wife. he begins kissing and fondling her on the dental chair, then begins to choke her. april starts to cough and half-wakes up from the gas. feinstone snaps out of his trance and quickly re-buttons april's blouse. feinstone decides to end the day early and sends his staff and patients home. later that night, brooke meets feinstone at his practice. he reveals his new italian opera-themed patient room. he encourages brooke to try out the room's dental chair. when she does, feinstone binds her to the chair and sedates her with nitrous oxide. with operatic music blaring in the background, he begins to pull out brooke's teeth. feinstone has gone off the deep end and is definitely not going to let anybody stand in his way of cleanliness.<br /><br />honestly, as silly as this movie sounds, i did have a lot of fun watching the dentist. the best scene without a doubt is when he teaches that nasty irs agent a lesson in hygiene that i'm sure he'll never forget. man, i don't think i've brushed my teeth so much after i watched the dentist. yeah, i am going to warn you, this movie is in no way for the faint of heart, it's very bloody. there's stabbing, gun shots and just these brutal dental torture scenes that will make your stomach turn. yet somehow i just enjoyed this movie, if i ever want just a good gore movie that was made for true horror fans, i slip it in my dvd player, and that's the "tooth" lol! i am so funny! um, yeah, i try, give me a little credit.<br /><br />7/10