a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away.....there was a boy who was only two years old when the original "star wars" film was released. he doesn't remember first seeing the movie, but he also doesn't remember life before it. he does remember the first "star wars" themed gift he got...a shoebox full of action figures from the original set. he was too young to fully appreciate how special that gift would be. but years later, he would get what to this day goes down as one of the best gifts he's ever received: another box full of action figures, ten of the final twelve he needed to complete his collection. it's now legendary in this boy's family how the last action figure he needed, anakin skywalker, stopped being produced and carried in stores, and how this boy went for about ten years (until he got into college) trying to track one down and finally bought it from someone on his dorm floor for a bag of beer nuggets (don't ask...it's a northern illinois university thing).<br /><br />i can't review "star wars" as a movie. it represents absolutely everything good, fun and magical about my childhood. there's no separating it in my mind from christmases, birthdays, summers and winters growing up. in the winter, my friends and i would build snow forts and pretend we were on hoth (i was always han solo). my friends' dad built them a kick-ass tree house, and that served as the ewok village. they also had a huge pine tree whose bottom branches were high enough to create a sort of cave underneath it, and this made a great spot to pretend we were in yoda's home. i am unabashedly dorky when it comes to "star wars" and i think people either just understand that or they don't. i don't get the appeal of "lord of the rings" or "star trek" but i understand the rabid flocks of fans that follow them because i am a rabid fan of george lucas's films.<br /><br />i feel no need to defend my opinion of these movies as some of the greatest of all time. every time i put them in the dvd player, i feel like i'm eight years old again, when life was simple and the biggest problem i had was figuring out how i was going to track down a figure of anakin skywalker.<br /><br />grade (for the entire trilogy): a+