fassbinder's most lavish production sacrifices little of his talent for identifying and deconstructing a locus of suffering in long, mobile takes that somehow also act as social encapsulations; here, it's much more overt, since the story takes place in war-torn germany at the end of wwii, and the central character is a woman (hanna schygulla as maria) who capitalizes on vulnerabilities (both economic and gender-related) to catapult herself up the ladder of a prominent textile corp. that makes coveted goods like lederhosen available to indigent workers (as she once was). married amidst allied air raids, maria and her new husband herrmann are allowed a brief honeymoon before he's shipped out to the russian front. in his absence, her despair is great: she spends most days at the train station, waiting for him to return. when he is reported dead, she abruptly stops grieving and takes a job as a barmaid/prostitute at a brothel catering to american gi's.<br /><br />when he returns, things get plenty messy, as circumstances (and his sense of noble self-sacrifice) conspire to keep them apart. the message is fassbinder's m.o. writ large: 'love is colder than death,' but not only is maria contending with her own sanity and a husband largely incapable of loving her, but a country in deep flux with no discernible light at the end of the tunnel. fassbinder is making some kind of statement on post-war germany selling out to the highest bidder, but as with all his films, i tend to block those elements out and focus on the unbearable passions on display: fassbinder's as evoked through his characters; his actors' as filtered through their real-life connections with fassbinder. taken together, his films can be either unbearable or indescribably mesmeric, often at once; this falls somewhere in-between, although definitely closer to the latter. while i didn't like it quite as much as the bitter tears of petra von kant or katzelmacher, maria braun certainly has a greater scope and what's more, i could feel its passion and authentic detail to human emotions.