mobile suit gundam wing is the fourth series in the continuing gundam chronicles. unlike the previous entries which focused on massive wars, this one is a little different; instead of having an army-vs.-army situation, this one is led by five teenage boys (due to their ability to blend in more readily than normal adults) and their machines called "gundams" because of the metal alloy used in their construction. which leads to problems, since gundams are supposed to be destroyed, replaced by "mobile suits", which are piloted less-destructive weapon platforms and "dolls" which are ran on a.i. and are used as grunt infantry.<br /><br />the whole point of the series is a metaphysical question that gives gundam wing an edge over a greater portion of the anime that makes it's way here. especially since most anime is adapted from popular magazines, such as naruto, dragonball, one piece, dragonball z and inuyasha which are all from shonen jump, which is now available in america.<br /><br />mobile suit gundam wing sets itself apart from most anime in the fact that instead of over-the-top battles between mortals who more resemble gods, gundam is very humanistic and seems to revel in the fact that it is dramatic instead of melodramatic and events seem to unfold across the series gracefully. normally in anime there are more than few series that think that the best way to go about having a "small" battle is to have it take a half-hour - something that would never happen in real life. gundam tops this by making sure that everyone knows that characters will die, machines will be destroyed and rebuilt, battles will be lost and won, and it never seems as though it makes the actions themselves satirical.<br /><br />but the magic of gundam wing is in the details, and what this series has that more anime would be grateful for having. emotion. instead of mythic prophecies, magic, or overblown martial arts, gundam wing is hard-line science fiction from a country that hates hard-line science fiction. (note: the author would like to state that neon genesis evangelion is not hard-line-plausible-in-real-life science fiction due to the religious subject matter that is the core of its series) they love star wars, but hate a.i. (the movie). henceforth why gundam wing was and gundam seed is now in production for both japanese and u.s. releases at the same time with two voice teams. american audiences only have to wait two or three weeks after the end of the japanese season to catch the dubbed or subtitled versions or even the edited seed episodes that air on cartoon network.<br /><br />the emotion is that these two sides that are fighting a war are technically backwards. the heroes are those who defend the rights of the more wealthy and aristocratic citizens of earth from the band of terrorists bent on victory at any and all costs that make up the protagonists of mobile suit gundam wing. this is not war, this is "total war". every person, every building, every street is a target for attack, both on earth and off.<br /><br />my only complaint, and the reason it didn't get the score of ten, is that at about three-fourths of the way through, it just kind of goes dead for a few episodes, and no one really seems to change. kind of like a present-time flashback, which is fine due to what it reveals about the characters, but at the same time it drags down what should be the brewing between project: meteor and oz. but the final two episodes and the overplayed-on-cartoon-network (back in 2001-2003) mobile suit gundam wing: endless waltz movie more than make up for the slack.