pierce brosnan has sipped his last martini and returns, in an outrageous self-parody, as the aging foul-mouthed boozy assassin julian noble, who has a particular fondness for teenage girls, bullfights and tacky clothes. during a job in mexico city he meets danny (greg kinnear), a straight-faced denver suburban business-man, who's in town to make his deal of-a-life-time, in a hotel bar. despite their completely different personalities and julian's crude and insensible remarks, they become friends. <br /><br />largely carried by the performances of pierce brosnan and greg kinnear, director richard shepard revealed that he didn't write the film with pierce brosnan in mind , but i can hardly imagine this without him. he proves to have a real talent for comedy and can be more than just james bond or cold-war spies. the scene in which the two meet at a glossy hotel bar (stunning sets and beautifully photographed) really is a bravura piece of acting skills. the scene lasts almost fifteen minutes, and although it was probably carefully scripted, the two actors are largely improvising, but they succeed wonderfully! it almost feels like a new standard in screen acting. think of robert de niro and harvey keitel in mean steets improvising and add one of the most subtle underpinnings of many genre clich'es and the actors' own typecasting (brosnan's james bond in particular), and you got one of the most delightful pairings in recent hollywood. <br /><br />sadly, the story wears thin after a while. after an hour, the film just runs out of steam. nevertheless, and i can't put my finger on it exactly, i did enjoy this very much. it just feels very fresh and original, with some imaginative use of sets and lighting, and some hints to seijun suzuki and jean-pierre melville. the other characters aren't given much to do, but this film does offer something new, in that respect it almost effortlessly succeeds in blending all conventional genres into quite an entertaining spoof. very amusing.<br /><br />camera obscura --- 7/10