i can't say too much about kalifornia as sadly i have yet to actually see the whole thing (i've only managed to see it in bits and pieces on fuse.) but what i have seen is absolutely awesome! i am a fan of brad pitt but i admit not all his earlier movies are well good. but this role, i just, his acting is great, his character early seems so normal well okay creepy, dark weird but you know normal for a hillbilly of that type i guess. and juliette lewis's performance although i can see how some may be annoyed by it i think it's amazing. sadly i have yet to see the end, but from reading other reviews on here it sounds good, but disappointing. i have to admit that i wish david duchovany's (sorry if the spelling on that is incorrect) was a bit flat but for him it was okay. his wife's character was better, and i thought her performance while not the best in the movie was pretty good, a portrait of the avant-gard/older sister type. particularly the scene where early and brian go to play pool, and adele and carrie are having their one on one time together. i've watched that scene at least twice now and i still think the acting in it is just wonderful. one because of the emotion that adele portrays after talking about being raped by the three guys and how she feels about early and carrie's reaction to it. everything about that i think is just so perfect. i mean, maybe it's because i can relate a bit, i'm not sure. <br /><br />as for brad pitt who plays the serial killer that we actually get to see for once; i thought he was great. some movies with pitt that i've seen were just average or not worth seeing. i don't think i've ever seen a terrible pitt movie or if i have it's not because of his acting it's other factors. this movie was not one of them. he turned out a great performance in kalifornia. i swear i'm not just some random i do like him for his acting not just because he's good looking, i mean his character in this movie isn't exactly handsome or cute by any means! pitt is dark, brooding and downright scary at times. yet he's also cheerful, funny, nice, and even loving towards adele. granted there are some spots that made me want to reach through the tv and strangle him but that's probably just me (and the character pitt played in the movie.) but it also shows how good pitt's acting was in this movie it made me forget that he was playing a character, that is what good acting is supposed to do. <br /><br />at any rate i wish i could say more, but that's all i can really say without having seen the ending, i have seen most of the movie through what i've caught on fuse and as i'm writing this i'm taping it on dvr so hopefully i can write a more complete review later. i just wanted to share my thoughts on a movie that i thought was something really cool and something that seems to have gotten overlooked (it shouldn't have!)