although i'm grateful this obscure gem of 70's italian exploitation cinema features in the recently released "grindhouse experience" box set, and although it's also available on disc under the misleading and stupid alternate title "escape from death row", i honestly think it deserves a proper and luxurious dvd edition, completely in its originally spoken languages with subtitle options (the dubbing is truly horrible), restored picture quality and a truckload of special bonus features! heck, i don't even need the restored picture quality and bonus features if only we could watch the film in its original language. "mean frank and crazy tony" is a cheerfully fast-paced mafia/crime flick with a lot of violence, comedy (which, admittedly, doesn't always work), feminine beauty and two witty main characters. tony lo bianco is terrific as the small thug pretending to be the city's biggest don. when the real crime lord frankie dio (lee van cleef) arrives in town, he sees an opportunity to climb up the ladder by offering his services. frankie initially ignores the little crook, but they do eventually form an unlikely team when frankie's entire criminal empire turns against him and a new french criminal mastermind even assassinates frankie's innocent brother. tony helps frankie to escape from prison and together they head for marseille to extract frankie's revenge. the script of this sadly neglected crime gem funnily alters gritty action & suspense with light-headed bits of comedy, like the grotesque car chase through the narrow french mountain roads for example. the build up towards the typical mafia execution sequences (guided by an excellent riz ortolani score) are extremely tense and the actual killings are sadistic and merciless, which is probably why the film is considered to be somewhat of a grindhouse classic. the film lacks a strong female lead, as the lovely and amazingly voluptuous beauty edwige fenech sadly just appears in a couple of scenes, and then still in the background. on of the men behind the camera, responsible for the superb cinematography, was no less then joe d'amato. great film, highly recommended to fans of italian exploitation, and i hope to watch it again soon in its original version.