wwe has produced some of the worst pay-per-views in its history over the past few months. cyber sunday, survivor series and december to dismember were appalling to say the least and so it was relying on its b brand show, smackdown! to attempt to end the year on a high note. armageddon had two major gimmick matches in the last ride and inferno matches, three championships were on the line and an interesting main event in the shape of a tag team war featuring batista and john cena against king booker and finlay. however, it was an amendment to one of those championship matches that brought us not only the match of the night but also now a match of the year candidate when teddy long gave us fans an early christmas present. t-lo changed the wwe tag team championship match from champions, london and kendrick against to regal and taylor to a four team ladder match including mnm and the hardy boyz.<br /><br />i am not going to dwell on this match too much as nothing i can say would be able to do it justice. this has to be seen to be believed. there were many high spots and many more brutal bumps and awkward landings. the one move i have to talk about however was the one that took joey mercury straight to the emergency room midway through the contest. jeff hardy jumped onto a ladder that was set up in the see saw position with matt hardy holding both members of mnm over the opposite end of it to take the full force. unfortunately for mercury he didn't get his hands up to protect his face and took the ladder full force in the nose and left eye. this was vicious. his face was instantly a mess for all to see and not surprisingly this ended mercury's night early. we found out later he suffered a broken nose and cuts under his left eye. be warned. this is not for the faint of heart. the ending to this roller-coaster of a match came after paul london managed to grab both championship belts for the victory. i have been watching wrestling for almost 15 years and it doesn't get any better than this match. unbelievable.<br /><br />the night opened with only the 4th ever inferno match. kane took on mvp in a good match but it was all about the visual and not really about the action. there were a few close calls with the flames for both competitors but in the end it was kane who forced mvp onto the flames after they both ended up outside the ring. mvp ran around the ring whilst his butt was on fire and there was a sick part of me that laughed watching this. may i suggest to michael hayes that mvp comes out next week on smackdown! to johnny cash's ring of fire.<br /><br />the other gimmick match of the night, and the second match of a triple main event was an all out war last ride match between mr kennedy and the undertaker. this was a stiff match from start to finish and was the best of the series undertaker and kennedy have had yet. the used poles, chairs and one scene had the undertaker thrown 15 feet from the armageddon set onto what was suppose to be the concrete floor. unfortunately it was plain to see that this was nothing but a crash mat and crowd didn't pop for this. the ending came after a chokeslam by the dead man to kennedy on top of the hearse followed quickly by a match-winning tombstone.<br /><br />in other notable happening from the card. chris benoit defeated chavo guerrero by submission in another stiff match. this was a very good bout with benoit hitting 8 german suplexes on chavo at one time. benoit was also considering whether to put vikki guerrero in the sharpshooter or not. luckily he came to his senses and let her go. this led to chavo attempting the roll up only for it to be countered into the sharpshooter for the submission.<br /><br />another cracking match on the card was the cruiserweight championship contest between the longest reigning champion in wwe, gregory helms and jimmy wang yang. featuring a lot of high flying and dangerous spots, some of which took place outside the ring, this was a match much more deserving of the crowd response than what it got. jbl put it best when he berated the fans in richmond, virginia for sitting on their hands during this one and at one point even started a boring chant. helms picked up the duke after a jawbreaker type manoeuvre with his knees to smackdowns! resident redneck.<br /><br />the boogeyman pinned the miz in a worthless match. i hate the boogeyman with a passion. only worth listening too for jbl's ranting about miz. jbl is comedy gold.<br /><br />the last match of the night was main event number 3. world heavyweight champion, batista and wwe champion, john cena teamed up to take on finlay and the champion of champions, king booker. there was no way the match could top the tag team championship match from earlier on but it entertained none the less. the match would have been more memorable had it been given an extra five to ten minutes but how many times have i said that about wwe matches this year already. it was king booker who was pinned at the end of the match after a big batistabomb.<br /><br />so 2006 is over for the wwe in regards to it's pay-per-view schedule. it started the year on a terrible note with new year's revolution but ended on a high one with armageddon. this ladder match will long be remembered as one of the greatest ladder matches of all time. my hat is off to all eight competitors who but their bodies on the line to give the fans one hell of a match.