what happens when the average joe finds out he has supernatural powers? the premise may sound familiar. the watchmen? unbreakable? however, the russian sci-fi action flick, the sword bearer, is far from the standard stock.<br /><br />the story revolves around a man named sasha who as a boy was shunned from society, his peers and family due to a supernatural power that he possess. when he wishes or his anger allows, a sword extends from his arm piercing his own skin. very wolverinish? maybe... but that's not the interesting part of this film. shunned all his life and driven by anger (and a temper he does have) our "hero" returns to his home town to turn his life around or find a reason to. the only thing he encounters here is trouble when an encounter with an old flame's new boyfriend leaves him bloodied on the ground. this is where the vengeance and anger comes into play. this is a man you do not want to cross and from this point the mafia and the police are on his tail. he meets a girl and falls in love instantly as does she and this is really what the movie is about.<br /><br />the film is highly impressionistic with bold colors and noir overtones spliced with short yet extreme action sequences. this is art house at it's core, beautifully filmed with such attention to details in every scene over gruesome sci-fi action. it's this odd mash that interests me so much in this film. the directors approach for this genre is refreshing focusing on the emotional journey of sasha and not a straight action film. don't worry though, the action is there and plenty of it. however, much of these sequences show only implied violence with pictures of the horrific aftermath. this is not to say that action is not shown. these scenes are here and are fantastic (especially the ending where we see sasha's full powers unleashed in desperation). the director chooses to imply the violence of many scenes to keep the focus on the character's emotional struggle at hand. this is a tragic love story and a refreshing entry into the genre.