sur mes l`evres or read my lips is fine little thriller that also examines the lives of 'outsiders', people who live in the periphery of our vision who struggle with the need to 'fit in'. director jacques audiard with and co-writer tonino benacquista have created a tense, tight, completely entertaining little thriller that makes some significant statements about out of the norm individuals and their plights.<br /><br />carla (emmanuelle devos) is a plain jane, mostly deaf, thirty something unnoticed secretary for a company whose life is one of social and sexual isolation and whose view of the future is rather bleak. enter paul (vincent cassel) a recent released ex-con parolee who responds to an ad to be carla's assistant. there is a mutual physical repulsion at first meeting: carla had hoped for a well-groomed, genteel man who might fulfill her fantasies and paul is a coarse, unkempt sleazy guy who is not impressed with being a clerk. their concepts change rather quickly when paul salvages carla's job by filling her request to steal a letter that would cost her her job and paul discovers carla's lip reading ability which he sees as a way to spy on the criminals from his past who threaten his life for money owed. so this odd couple of a team join forces and together enter a dangerous suspense filled ploy to gain paul's safety and freedom. the relationship is full of twists and edge of the seat suspense with each of these unlikely characters fulfilling roles in their lives that fill the chinks in their walls of isolation in surprising ways.<br /><br />devos and cassel deliver bravura performances and the remainder of the cast is uniformly strong. once again alexandre desplat has produced a musical score that enhances the tension and cinematographer mathieu vadepied finds all the right lighting and angles to suggest the worlds of isolation of the characters as well as the hitchcockian sense of suspense. director audiard wisely manipulates a factor that is at once sensitive and transformative for the story: he shows us the difference between 'hearing' the world with and without hearing aids and in doing so makes some powerful social comments. this is a fine film that remains in the ranks of the best of the french film noir genre. recommended. grady harp