while i do not think this was a perfect 10, i do agree it was way above a 6 which is what it's rated here. no, brokedown palace was not perfect and yes it's plot has been done many times before. that doesn't mean it shouldn't be done again if it is done well and i think this movie had some strong moments. the acting of claire danes, as already mentioned many times, was flawless as was kate beckinsell and i think bill pullman was absolutely terrific as was the supporting performances(pullman's wife, the crooked cop, skip or trip or whatever his name is). the cinematography was also beautifully filmed, there was a lot that's good to this movie even if there were some negatives(three major ones that i found) as well.<br /><br />here is what i didn't like about it-the friendship between the girls-in fact, the girls' own individual personalities-were not developed in depth until the late middle of the pic. it would not have been improbable to lose interest before then, because, despite the positives, more character development should have been done earlier on and certain scenes like when the girls were originally arrested, were almost glossed over so there was a bit to much jumping around without the character and scene development i think would have been appropriate for this type of film. that, however, is not my major problem. and warning-spoiler alert.<br /><br />the ending as mentioned dozens of times already, was awful. it was awful in two respects. firstly, even though it would have been predictable and very hollywood, i wanted a happy ending! yes, it was an emotional and powerful ending but in a movie such as this, there is a sense that justice will be served and i did sit through it to see that. i was genuinely shocked at the ending and it was performed with excellence by all involved but i feel both girls should have got out or, barring that, at least the cop should have got what was coming to him. i mean nothing happens to the bad guys, they all get away with it. very disturbing.<br /><br />also, i do not understand the ambiguity of the ending. i understand endings that are inspired to make one think, but this was not a mystery or "clue" type movie we were watching, and i would have liked to know something about what actually happened,who was guilty etc, with this ending we were left to decide that ourselves but since i somehow doubt there will be a sequel, i did not want to be kept guessing.<br /><br />still, there was a lot to like about this movie, and the acting is definitely at the top of the list,i would rate this a 7.5 and say it is definitely worth a look.