i saw this movie a million years (5 years to be exact) ago for the first the time. in the light of recent events with the australian woman schapelle corby being imprisoned in indonesia for so called smuggling pot, i decided to watch this movie again. i excepted to cry my heart out, 'cause i'm sucker for hot girls in need (just read my review of 'the stalking of laurie show'). some moist escaped my eyes, but it were hardly buckets filled with tears. why? not because the two heroines weren't utterly adoring and helpless, not because the movie wasn't heartbreaking at the sight of these two kids in the prime of their live locked up in almost inhuman conditions. why then? why did i not cry? i wanted to cry! when i rent a movie like this, i except to be moved, to sob like there's no tomorrow, to feel miserable and like it. this movie was simply too short to do this. it was just like the script was reduced to the main plot elements, and while doing this the psychological aspect was thrown aside. clare danes and kate beckinsale did an excellent job portraying the emotions of the two friends, but this movie just screamed for more footage of these girls in their depressing (and oppressing) surroundings. the mental journey is missing here for some reason. you only get to see the key moments of it (which are very touching, i admit), probably because of bad editing. sometimes i felt these girls were walking around in a postcard. the relationship with the family members could also have used a bit more attention. what's up with the relationships between the girls and the parents (especially between alice and her dad)? you catch a glimpse of it, but the film doesn't quite offer the whole picture, sadly enough.<br /><br />nonetheless this was a great movie, and at the end i even had to bite my lip a bit. but i guess this has more to do with the acting skills (and the looks) of the actresses (and the music) then with the merit of the director. to be honest, i hardly knew who kate beckinsale was before i watched this movie (again). now, i am a fan! great movie, as long as you don't expect it to be classic cinema.