if you are looking for a definitive biography of the life of boxer james corbett, then this is probably not the film for you. the famed boxer receives a 1940s "hollywood-ization" of his life--making the story far more entertaining and engaging than real life. however, because the performances were so good (particularly by errol flynn) and the script so likable, the film's embellishments can be forgiven.<br /><br />errol flynn plays gay nineties-era boxer james "gentleman jim" corbett--a man who became world boxing champ in 1892. the film goes from his rather humble beginnings and follows his through his career through him winning the title match against john l. sullivan. however, while it could have focused mostly on the matches, most are rather brief in the film (except for the final title match) and the emphasis is on corbett's brash personality as well as his relationship with the lady played by alexis smith. throughout the film, there is excellent supporting work done by a cast of wonderful supporting actors (such as the perennial supporting actor in flynn films, alan hale) and the writing really helped bring these people alive.<br /><br />what is particularly nice about the film is seeing the athleticism of flynn as a boxer. while a few of the shots are of doubles, almost all the boxing scenes are of flynn and he did a convincing job as a pugilist. this was a nice departure for flynn, who generally played "pretty boy" roles or swashbucklers and this shows just how tough a character he was. to find out more about this, try reading a biography of him--he was quite the rough and tumble character before coming to hollywood.<br /><br />now as for the real james corbett, read on if you aren't afraid of finding out how the movie isn't accurate. first, corbett was not a poor guy coming from a poor family, but was college educated and bright. second, while he did get alexis smith at the end of the film, they also divorced a few years later. third, the wonderfully touching final scene of the film between sullivan and corbett was probably the best part of the film, sullivan was a jerk and this never could have happened--in reality, sullivan was more the egomaniac and corbett was not the fat-headed guy they portrayed in the film--though it made for a lovely film.