eleven different film makers from different parts of the world are assembled in this film to present their views and ideas about the wtc attack. this is one of the best effort you will see in any film. films like this are rarely made and appreciated. this film tries to touch every possible core of wtc. here are some of the most important stories from the film that makes this film so unique.<br /><br />there is the story from samira makhmalbaf (iran) where somewhere in iran people are preparing for the attacks from america. there a teacher is trying to educate her students by informing them about innocent people being killed in wtc massacre. then comes a story from youssef chahine (egypt) where a film maker comes across face-to-face conversation with a dead soldier in the wtc attack and a dead hard core terrorist who was involved in wtc attack. then we see a story from idrissa ouedraogo (burkina faso) where a group of five innocent children's sees osama bin laden and plans to kidnap him and win the reward money from america. then we see the story from alejandro gozalez inarritu (mexico) where you see a black screen and slowly you see the real footage of wtc buildings coming down. and the people who are stuck in the building are jumping out of it to save their lives. the other most important story is from mira nair (india) where a mother is struggling to get respect for her dead son whose name is falsely trapped in wtc massacre! after september 11 attack, our heart beat automatically starts pumping if we hear two names anywhere in the world.. first is world trade centre and the second is osama! this film totally changes our perception and makes a strong point by claiming something more to it.<br /><br />i will definitely recommend this movie to everyone who loves to have such kinds of home dvd collection. definitely worth every penny you spend. but please don't expect anything more apart from films in this dvd. there is of course filmographies of the film makers but no extra features.