as you may know, the subject here was to ask eleven directors from all over the world to make each a short movie of 11 minutes, 9 seconds and one frame. we have here : - samira makhmalbaf (iran) : what afghan refugee kids can understand to the towers collapsing ? well, nothing. a great lesson. - claude lelouch (france) : a weak plot with a great cinematography... just imagine a deaf woman living by the wtc who sees without understanding it that her dog barks... well just see it. - youssef chahine (egypt) : the greatest oriental movie maker has compassion... for everyone : for an us soldier who died ten years ago, for the people in the wtc but also for a palestinian suicide-terrorist. maybe the less tender movie towards the us. - danis tanovic (bosnia hrzgovia) : good images, makes us travel, for sure... not a very good plot. idrissa oudraogo (burkina faso) : from one of the poorest country in the world, a tender and funny story about five boys who want to capture osama bin laden... and they could have done it but nobody believes them when they tell they know where he is. ken loach (uk) : september 11, 1973, the chile entered in a twenty-years long bloody dictature. thousands of death, tortures : all that was offered to chile by henry kissinger and the cia, and knowing this changes very much your point of view ! i guess that is because of that particular short that no american movie distribution company accepted to release the movie in us theaters ! loach forgot to point that 1973 is also the year when the wtc was built ! - alejandro gonzalez inarritu (mexico) : impressing images that we all know too well, and a lot of black screens. i didn't get this one very much, it is more an artist video (to show in an exhibition) than a movie. - amos gita"i (isra"el) : an absurd ballet of policemen, journalists, etc., around a burning car in jerusalem. very well done. - mira nair (india) : about the anti-islamic feeling that followed september the 11th. very good actualy. - sean penn (us) : a funny little story that reminds us a fact usualy forgotten, the wtc did have a huge shadow, and some places now have a daylight they never had. - shohei imamura (japan) : a different one. here there is not even one word about the wtc, and the action takes place at the end of wwii. it has only one message : no war is holy. this short movie gives very deep feelings, but the director aparently would have done better with more than 11 minutes. --- so --- a great movie, a great attempt to take the world's temperature. i love it.