in new york, andy hanson (philip seymour hoffman) is an addicted executive of a real estate office that has embezzled a large amount for his addiction and expensive way of life with his wife gina (marisa tomei). when an audit is scheduled in his department, he becomes desperate for money. his baby brother hank hanson (ethan hawke) is a complete loser that owes three months of child support to his daughter, and is having a love affair with gina every thursday afternoon. andy plots a heist of the jewelry of their parent in a saturday morning without the use of guns, expecting to find an old employee working and without financial damage to his parents, since the insurance company would reimburse the loss. on monday morning, we would raise the necessary money he needs to cover his embezzlement. he invites hank to participate, since he is very well known in the mall where the jewelry is located and could be recognized. however, hank yellows and invites the thief bobby lasorda (brian f. o'byrne) to steal the store, but things go wrong when their mother nanette (rosemary harris) comes to work as the substitute for the clerk and bobby brings a hidden gun. nanette reacts and kills bobby but she is also lethally shot. after the death of nanette, their father charles hanson (albert finney) decides to investigate the robbery with tragic consequences.<br /><br />"before the devil knows you're dead" is a comedy of errors, disclosing a good story. the originality and the difference are in the screenplay, with a non-linear narrative `a la "pulp fiction". the eighty-three year-old sidney lumet has another great work and it is impressive the longevity of this director. philip seymour hoffman is awesome in the role of a dysfunctional man with traumatic relationship with his father that feels the world falling apart mostly because of his insecure and clumsy brother. marisa tomei is still impressively gorgeous and sexy, showing a magnificent body. the violent conclusion shows that the world is indeed an evil place. my vote is seven.<br /><br />title (brazil): "antes que o diabo saiba que voc^e est'a morto" ("before the devil knows you're dead")