films such as chocolat, beau travail, and others have propelled french director claire denis into the top echelon of the world's most unique and accomplished filmmakers and her 2004 film the intruder (l'intrus) adds to the depth of her portfolio. a cinematic poem that conveys a mood of abiding loneliness and loss, the film provides a glimpse into the psyche of a man who is deteriorating physically and mentally and who travels to various parts of the globe seeking redemption and peace but finds it hard to come by. loosely based on jean-luc nancy's memoir of a heart transplant, the intruder is a film of such unrelenting opaqueness that even after two viewings it is difficult to describe it in other than subjective, impressionistic terms.<br /><br />louis trebor (michael subor) is a man in his seventies who is likely dying of a heart condition and who, like the professor in ingmar bergman's wild strawberries, attempts to come to terms with the mistakes of his life while he has time. it is clear that he is physically rugged and very wealthy but seems emotionally drained and the look on his face is one of quiet resignation. though we see only one episode of violence, where he gets out of bed in the middle of night to kill an intruder, there is a sinister sense about him. he might be an intelligence officer, a foreign agent, or a hit man.<br /><br />whatever the case, he apparently is under some kind of surveillance and acts like a man that has been involved in criminal wrongdoing and is only now able to see the consequences. facial close-ups throughout the movie create a strong sense of isolation. he lives with his dogs in a cabin in the jura mountains near the french-swiss border and has an estranged son sidney (gregoire collin) whom he has long neglected. sidney lives nearby with his wife antoinette (florence loiret-caille) and their two children. in one telling scene, he meets up with his father on the street and calls him a lunatic, but that does not prevent him from taking his money.<br /><br />when the film opens, we meet antoinette, a swiss border guard, who boards a van with a trained dog to sniff out some contraband. when she comes home, she is greeted by her husband who asks her with tongue-in-cheek if she has "anything to declare?" other than these three individuals, the people and circumstances we see during the rest of the film may exist only in louis' imagination. louis has three women in his life and we meet them all in the film's first half hour: a pharmacist (bambou) who prepares his medication, a neighbor (b'eatrice dalle) who is a dog breeder who refuses to care for his dogs when he goes away on a trip telling him that they are as crazy as he is, and a young russian organ dealer (katia golubeva) who he tells he wants a "young man's heart".<br /><br />relentlessly, she stalks him throughout the film but it is apparently only in his mind. in the last section of the film, louis travels to south korea in search of a heart transplant and to tahiti to deliver a gift to a different son, one whom he has not seen for many years or perhaps has never seen. his heart transplant, however, appears to be a metaphor for a man without a heart, a man whose life has been fascinating but ultimately directionless, intruding into other people's lives with little real empathy. the intruder contains a haunting guitar soundtrack by stuart staples of the band tindersticks, reminiscent of the guitar riff in jim jarmusch's dead man, and gorgeous cinematography by denis regular agnes godard.<br /><br />godard creates memorable images that convey a mood of longing and regret: a heart beating alone in the snow, an infant in a sling looking up at his father for a good two minutes, the baby's expression gradually turning from morose to a half smile, colored streamers blowing from a newly christened ship, a massage in a dark room by a mysterious korean masseuse, and the vast expanse of ocean seen from a bobbing ship deck. while the intruder can be frustrating because of its elliptical nature, denis forces us to respond out of our own experience, to understand the images on the screen on a very personal level. if there is any theme, a hint might be found in the opening that tells us what is revealed piecemeal in the film - "your worst enemies are hiding, in the shadow, in your heart."