at first i didn't like the movie cause of it being a nazi swastika drama.but after buying it and seeing it, it wasn't that bad. i heard so many complaints about the numbers being short and ilse werner not singing. now i understand. the radio show was a super propaganda radio program. ilse , johanne and zara plus rudy shruki and band like kurt widman and his orchestra and fud cantics ex cetera never appeared in the radio show cause the singers and the bands were of the pop jazz and swing categories. the club foot had that regulated that for touring occupied areas for the soldiers to short wave radios for the soldiers also night clubs and hotels,in berlin and hamburg, and record sales only. this is why ilse wasn't allowed to sing in this picture. this would be made up by medium budget musical ,were making music, 1942, in which she would demonstrate her whistling.but this is an excellent example propaganda.inge and her aunt eichhorn,played by ida wust, goes to the 1936 olympics. the aunt forgets her tickets so inge has to wait till her aunt comes back with the tickets. she meets carle radditz, who plays herbert, who has an extra ticket. she goes with him and it's love at first sight. they plan to marry but the spanish war get in the way so he has to go on an assignment against the right side.carl raddatz as so many people complained about him was really handsome and not plain. when he did opfergang and they put a mustache on him plus his own suntan that made him plain looking.you see the nazi soldiers acting normal,like a scene in which a ex butcher and his troops are in france and they steal pigs from a farm and they are about to make lunch until their leader suggest to save the pigs. this reflect adolphs animal rights extremism. the character was a butcher now soldier . this was a subtle put down against meat eating.late on in world war 11, herbert is flying in a german airplane. we shoot one of the pilots so herbert takes over. we shoot his plane. they crash. unfortunately for us they survive.another seen the nazis soldiers go in a bomb catholic church ,now it's putting the catholics down, and hubert's best friend helmet,played by joachim brennecke starts to play the organ, beethtoven, .more bombs come in from us. the church is bomb more the soldier continues to stay and play the organ he's being told to leave. we end up injuring him. propaganda message? the catholic church organ cause him to become addicted to it.it injured him. see? by this time inge is with her either mother or grandma, played hedwig bleibteu, the same german grandame actress who played maria holst's aunt in weiner blut.well ,later it comes to the short view of the radio show. this was not intended to be a musical revue, such as kora terry released that same year were as well as rosen in tirol, the music as well as their side of the war was so supposed to be only the back drop. it was mainly a war romantic movie.it's easy to take a pot shot at those soldier in the movie but in real life many of those soldiers were being forced to fight the nazi cause, cause of the job and the monthly pay that they would receive. after the war many of them who survive would regret it. this is a good swastika classic. the only problem is that today you have neo nazi and nazi skin heads, who watched the same movies to reflect their hitler worship and their. they have disturbing websites who exploit these film classics to raise money for their insanity . be careful most of the time it's the direct hate only classics. if their scenario looks like they are glorifying it ,then its a nazi website skip it .go to ihf or german wartime films dot com, amazon dot dee or german video dot net. they are legitimate. 01/23/10 mada a mistake it wasn't herbert's friend that got killed at the church . it was malte yager's character's friend schartzscop.