october sky is a highly lauded movie, and it!|s easy to see why. the story is easy to comprehend and many turning points are gripping, the actors and actresses do fairly good jobs, especially jake gyllenhaal and chris cooper, the hero finally gets what he wants, and it!|s a true story. frankly i think the director!|s achievement is not comparable to the sparks and heat the original story generates. we don!|t see any special narrative or cinematography; the power of the movie relies much on the riveting plot and tough situation the young hero is trapped in that most audience will find themselves identify with the characters. we feel homer!|s desire to earn his father!|s recognition and create his own future, and his resilience wins our respect. !ssoctober sky!" reminds me of a later 2001 japanese production of mini series !ssrocket boy,!" which might owe some of the inspiration from this movie. actually these two works shot from two different cultures provide interesting comparison. when october sky unfolds a story of a young man crying out loud to claim his right over his own destiny, !ssrocket boy!" offers a more compromised description that could sometimes constitute an acrid criticism of modern society. starring the outstanding actor yuji oda, !ssrocket boy!" focuses on three men as ordinary as can be: a travel agent who has a dream of becoming an astronaut, a boastful advertising agent who is on the brink of being torn apart by his inferiority complex resulted from the extreme success of his father and older brother (like what homer feels in his family), and a food company employee who is about to getting married but scared of this idea. the collected social consciousness superimposes its definition of success on its constituents and steps further to force them suffocate their dreams by claiming them !ssimpossible.!" to compensate for his lost ideal, kobayashi (yuji) works in the tour operator because it!|s called !ssgalaxy.!" when his client fails him and his girlfriend decides to leave him, he finally finds strength from his father!|s words, who had determined to be a sailor but later found life on the sea less attractive as he had presumed. !ssbut i don!|t regret it,!" his father told kobayashi, !ssat least i tried.!" it is his father!|s confession that encourages him to resign his job and apply for astronautships despite the fact that he hurts his legs and needs to move around on a wheelchair. kobayashi!|s effort finally fails, and he goes back to the travel agency. but his !sscrazy!" courage inspires his friends, and everyone loves him more. just before the end of the series, kobayashi is on the job as a guide of a space camp meant to let children learn more about astronauts. after the tour is over we see him leaning against a tree, unfolding a sheet of poster he tears from the bulletin board that says: !ssastronauts wanted for 2004.!" kobayashi looks at the piece of paper and laughs and laughs, just like a kid looking at his ticket to disneyland. kobayashi may never get what he wants, but he dares his destiny and !ssjust does it.!" this series is so heart-gripping not because the hero exhibits any heroic deeds, but his ordinariness and unstoppable urge to realize his dream which make us wonder and envy. unlike dilbert or other sarcastic writings, this show enlightens us and teaches us something. homer and kobayashi both have the dream, and they do what they can despite other people!|s opinions. i recommend other imdb users to see the japanese tv series. if you are a nine-to-fiver, you will feel more touched. i feel sorry that imdb doesn!|t have its data, maybe you can ask somebody from japan to help you.