i have never seen such a movie before. i was on the edge of my seat and constantly laughing throughout the entire movie. i never thought such horrible acting existed it was all just too funny. the story behind the movie is decent but the movies scenes fail to portray them. i have never seen such a stupid movie in my life which is why it i think its worth watching. i give this movie 10 out of 10 for being the most pathetic movie ever created, this movie seems like it was solely created to become trash. i mean the scenes seem so fake and the actors act like "the camera is in front of them". you will get a kick just watching how lame this movie is, me and my friend could not stop making jokes during the movie, the darthvader guy who tries to get the girl got ran over not once but twice and the second time he got ran over it sounded like he said sh!# although he doesn't speak english lol. if you watch this movie you will think to yourself that all those other movies you didn't like you took for granted they are way better than this. this movie should be seen out of curiosity as well as what kind of movie defines lame. the evil serpent encountered the girl so many times it was ridiculous, the evil serpent just roared and roared and let her get away every time. the evil serpent had so many chances it was like god was trying to say hurry up and eat the girl how many miracles do you want. the transition between scenes leaves you wondering did i miss something? so many plot holes from scene to scene. i was laughing like crazy when they decided to "escape to mexico" to get away from the serpent. hmmmm hopping the border will save you from a serpent from korea? interesting... very interesting.... i guess hopping the border solves all problems. another scene that completely stupified me.. they met for the first time and had a romantic scene at the beach they kissed and didn't even know each other... the scene was so clich'ed and the was no substance at least in other movies it might seem logical afterwhile but i mean they just met even though they are reincarnations there feelings were like they instantly loved each other instead of it rather developing. anyways this movie is worth watching for the sake of opening your eyes and seeing the light. bad hollywood movies will seem like heaven when compared to this. in the end its worth watching you wont get bored you will be occupied criticizing every moment, every scene in your head.