i've recently went back and watched this movie again from not seeing it in years. when i first seen the movie i was too young to understand what the movie was about. now that i've seen it again i couldn't believe what i've missed all these years. for me being able to see movies for what they are, i think that this movie was great. most people feel as though the music are the best part, but i don't think that's true. most people don't realize how good the story is because it's judge by the acting. the truth of the matter is that no one in the movie were really trying to act rather they were just being themselves. the entire main cast were just playing themselves. they weren't trying to be anyone else, but themselves.<br /><br />i've actually watched and analyzed the work and effort put into the movie. now from my perspective, the situations shown in the movie are pretty much based on what actually went on musically in minneapolis at the time and it's most of the things that happen are actually true events that happened in prince's career and who can tell it better than him? the music that was coming from the city at the time was starting to be recognized and be revolutionary. it was interesting to see how the music was very influential mainly at the club "first avenue & 7th st entry" where in fact prince, among other musicians, got their career started. it's also a known fact that prince and morris day always had a competition with each other in real life, but it was a friendly competition. they were always friends. so the story basically plays off of that competition aspect of their rivalry rather than their friendship which shows the true competitive side of what occurred at club "first avenue" for it's time.<br /><br />another reason why this movie is good is due to the fact that some of the situations that occur in the movie are actually based on events that prince has gone through in his life with the music aspect and the personal. to me, this made the movie more realistic as far as the emotion because he's telling his trials and tribulations pre-superstardom. plus, his dedication he puts into his performances is phenomenal. prince made sure that every moment in the movie was done perfectly. anytime you hear a song play in the movie it's in perfect sync with the situation at hand.<br /><br />prince is in all a musical genius and he has proved it on many occasions. this movie is what really put prince on the map officially and he hasn't slowed down since. anyone who has watched this movie or still (unbelieveably) hasn't watched it yet, when you sit down and view this film you have have to watch it with intellect or you will miss the whole aspect of the movie. if you really love music this is definitely the movie to watch. above what anyone else says i think it's a great movie to watch and own.