this is one of the best movies to come from bollywood in years. certainly the best this year until now. indian to the core, the panoramic visuals, the heart-pleasing dialogs and the melodious and soft music make the movie an exceptional one. the apt depiction of indianvalues and culture makes the viewer search for his/her roots in them and invigorates the mind and spirit with a sense of pride and a new lease on life.<br /><br />this movie is for viewers who enjoy a call to their imagination and philosophical senses. if you like watching movies to get all your nerves excited through on-screen action, sex or terror, then this movie is not for you, because you will find that the movie is not full of 90 degrees twists in it. it is as simple a story for a movie as it can get. but that's exactly where the art of the movie lies. one gets a real life experience, and the best thing is, this experience is one full of values and hope. it is about the positive side of life, about the sweet things that god has showered on humans, as against the regressive movies that insist on showing dons, terrorists and underworlds. this is not about things and people that have gone bad. it is about the goodness that still persists, and that keeps the world running. of course, every genre of movies is respectable but it takes a lot of courage and talent to come up with a movie that swims against the current and tries to open the eyes of the public to the hidden realities and truths. <br /><br />having said that, here's more... <br /><br />the movie is the journey of a couple from their engagement to their arranged marriage - yes, that's right, it is an arranged marriage and the couple come to know each other only through their parents, and learn to love each other. the 6 month gap between engagement and marriage is a long time, not full of "enticing" happenings, but one that nurtures the growing love and devotion of the couple to each other. they learn together the importance of their relationship and of this invaluable period of their lives, and work to strengthen the bonds of marriage. but have these been strengthened enough? their relationship will face the test of not only time but also fortune. will they pass this test? that is what "vivah" is about.