last night i finished re-watching "jane eyre" (1983), the bbc mini-series adapted from charlotte bronte's gothic romance novel which is deservingly a classic of english literature with timothy dalton (my favorite james bond) as mr. edward rochester and zelah clarke, as jane eyre, a poor orphaned 18-year-old girl, a governess at mr. rochester's estate, thornfield. "jane eyre" has been one of my most beloved books since i was an 11-years-old girl and the friend of mine gave it to me with the words, "this book is amazing" and so it was and i have read it dozens of times and i am still not tired of it. its beautiful language, refined, fragrant, and surprisingly fresh, the dialogs, and above all, two main characters, and the story of their impossible love have attracted many filmmakers. "jane eyre" has been adapted to tv and big screen many times, 18 according to imdb. the actors as famous and marvelous as joan fontaine and orson welles, william hurt and charlotte gainsbourg, george c. scott and susannah york, ciar'an hinds and samantha morton have played the couple that had overcome hundreds of obstacles made by society, laws, religion, by the differences in age, backgrounds, experiences, and by the fateful mistakes that would hunt one for many years. of all these films i've only seen one, 300 minutes long bbc version from 1983 that follows the novel closely and where timothy dalton who frequently plays dark, brooding characters did not just play edward rochester brilliantly and with class, he was mr. rochester - sardonic, vibrant, the force of nature, powerful, passionate, sexy, and tormented master of thornfield. zelah clarke was also convincing as sweet, gentle, intelligent and strong jane who feels deeply and is full of passion mixed with clear reasoning, and quiet but firm willpower.<br /><br />added on september 17, 2007: during the last two weeks, i've seen five "jane eyre" movies and it was a wonderful experience. there is something to admire in every adaptation of "jane eyre" even if not all of them are completely successful. this version is still my favorite "jane eyre" film.