the 1983 bbc production of "jane eyre" starring zelah clarke and timothy dalton (love him) has always been and will always be my favorite jane eyre. if you watch any other version of jane eyre without reading the book, it will be like watching some regular movie which you will forget the next day. but watching this one almost equals to reading the book. i used to watch these miniseries a lot when i was little, and they inspired me to read the book. at the time i didn't pay attention to how close this television production was to the book. recently, i watched the 1996 version of jane eyre and was very disappointed. it was only 2 hours long and didn't have many important scenes from the book (such as my favorite gypsy scene). after that i fell in love with this "jane eyre" even more because it includes all the important scenes of the book and it just tells the whole story( the other versions don't, if you haven't read the book). <br /><br />the cast of 1983 jane eyre is excellent. it's true that timothy dalton is a very handsome actor (handsome enough to play butler in "scarlet", and julius caesar), but he is so great as rochester that i can't imagine anybody else playing this role. and zelah clarke is, without a doubt, the only jane that follows the description of the book. the other thing that makes this film so great is the clothes and the makeup of the actors. jane looks so modest and naive, just as bronte describes her (although she doesn't look 18, but do you actually pay attention to that?...) <br /><br />some people say that this "jane eyre" is too long, but i would rather spend my whole day watching it than spend 2 hours watching some other version. some say the movie is dull and boring because jane is not passionate enough, or because there are not enough "kissing scenes". i hate when they make jane eyre some "hollywood movie" with inappropriate kissing scenes. you don't have to include "crazy, madly in love" scenes to show the love between jane and rochester. and both zelah and timothy express this love so perfectly that there are no other scenes needed!! i am 19 years old, and many girls of my age refer to this film as "boring and old-fashioned". but i can only feel sorry for them because they don't appreciate the purity and beauty of it. after all, the novel is set in 19th century, and that old-fashioned look makes it more attractive and more like the book. <br /><br />i don't think there will ever be any other version of jane ayre that will have the popularity and love of this one. no matter who plays jane and rochester in other movies, the real jane and rochester (for me at least) will always be zelah clarke and timothy dalton!