*spoiler alert: i wish i could discuss this without revealing specific plot points, but i can't. sorry.*<br /><br />i was looking for an imdb review of the george c. scott movie when i stumbled across the summary and reviews for this version. it had so many positive reviews that i decided to order it even though: (a)while truncated and rushed, i thought george c. scott embodied the tortured nature (and physical appearance) of the book's rochester to a t; and (b)even while looking at the dvd's cover, i was thinking "isn't timothy dalton too good-looking for the role?" the latter concern was reinforced by the fact that i decided to re-read the book while the dvd was on backorder. that said, the minute i started watching this, i was captivated. at first it was disconcerting to hear 1840's dialog spoken as written--with little or no attempts at modernization--but dalton and clarke threw themselves into it so thoroughly, that i actually enjoyed the fact that the adapters trusted the audience to follow archaic speech. to have so much of the book up on the screen was an extra bonus. i know someone who won't watch any versions of jane eyre because "who wants to see a film about a man who keeps a poor crazy woman in the attic?" frankly, if someone who hadn't read the book stumbled across the hour and a half or two hour versions, they would think that's pretty much all the story entails--rochester's secret and its affect on everyone around him. luckily, this version is actually about jane eyre's whole life.<br /><br />some people have criticized the casting. dalton is too dashing; clarke is too reserved. i can't argue against the first point, but he is so "in the moment" that i believe he is rochester. to me, clarke's performance is on the mark. jane eyre is quiet, guarded. if one remembers the book, so much of the adult jane's fieriness and passion occurs during her private struggles. some of the criticisms baffle me. reviewers say clarke is too short or isn't pretty enough. the book goes on ad infinitum about how small and plain jane is. ms. clarke shouldn't be tall and the filmmakers toned down her looks to make jane's declarations of her lack of beauty credible. she can scarcely help it if dalton is tall. some say there is no chemistry between the leads. what?!! the scene when jane finally comes out of her room after the wedding fiasco fairly vibrates with passion and longing and sadness and regret--and that's just the first example that comes to mind.<br /><br />i do agree with some of the other criticisms. i too missed more scenes with helen burns and the rivers siblings. some of the dialog was oddly truncated. when rochester declares, "jane, you misjudge me. i do not hate her because she is mad," i waited for the rest of the exchange when rochester explains how if jane were to go mad, he would still love and care for her. it's a powerful moment in the book, and i wish it had been included. i think it was a mistake to bring a scene with rochester into the part of the story where jane is on her own. it might have been done for clarity's sake, but i found it jarring. i wanted the sly humor of the scene where jane opines that rochester's ardor will cool and he'll become gruff again, but he may "like" her again by and by. dalton's performance is so good that the rare misstep is glaring--when rochester weeps in the library, i saw him as an actor doing a crying scene, not as rochester. as for the sets, if anyone has ever caught an episode of the 1960's show "dark shadows," one knows what to expect--very stark and sometimes rickety looking interiors. others have commented thoroughly and succinctly about the make-up job rochester sports at the end. yikes! it is bad. the conclusion is too abrupt. after all that anguish and suspense, i wanted a more rounded off ending. and, on my copy of the dvd, having credits at the beginning and end of all eleven 25-30 minute episodes gets to be a bit much. that said, i am so glad i have this film and will watch it again and again.