i am a jane eyre lover and a purist, and this version includes almost all of the important details of the book, and the characters are portrayed as i imagined them. jane eyre is a complex story of great richness and can't be delivered properly in a feature-length format, so it needs a tv mini-series. timothy dalton's rochester is probably the best ever. there has been a lot of discussion about how attractive he is and his age. in the book, jane (the narrator) describes him as "about 35" and not young, but not yet middle aged. i think timothy dalton was about 38 when he made this, so that is about right. also, we only have jane's opinion of whether rochester is handsome. she only just met him and he asks her bluntly what she thinks. as an inexperienced and humble girl, i can't imagine her saying she did think him handsome. the actor playing rochester needs to show us the character of the man, and this is fulfilled to perfection. i love the relationship between the two leads, which is the crucial thing about this story, and the humour of their encounters. other versions have blown it, but this gets it right. the 2006 version with toby stephens (aged 37 years) is in progress on bbc1 and is very good indeed, so i will decide whether that is my favourite when it is completed.<br /><br />on viewing this series again, after watching the 2006 version, i have decided that this version with timothy dalton and zelah clark is the best! charlotte bronte's dialogue is preserved and this is essential to the power of the story. modernisation just doesn't work - it's a victorian story and having archaic poetic speech suits the characters. this version has an excellent cast - zelah clark is tiny and the difference in height between her and rochester is important; timothy dalton has real presence and is an amazing actor. there are no extra scenes to divert from the plot and the screenplay includes all the essential scenes, but leaves out unnecessary details, making it to the point and gripping. i recommend it to all true jane eyre fans.