loopy, but shrewd and formidable mob boss vic (an excellent performance by richard dreyfuss) gets released from a mental hospital. several of vic's fellow criminal cohorts who include volatile henchman "brass balls" ben london (a gloriously manic and over-the-top hammy portrayal by gabriel byrne), the smarmy jake parker (a perfectly smug kyle maclachlan), and vicious rival "wacky" jacky jackson (a neat turn by burt reynolds) all try to bump vic off. meanwhile, laid-back and self-assured hit-man mickey holliday (nicely played with low-key confidence by jeff goldblum) finds himself caught in the middle of all this deadly lunacy. writer/director larry bishop brings a supremely hip, quirky, and original idiosyncratic sensibility to this deliciously dark and deadpan pitch-black comedy about betrayal, loyalty, and ruthless ambition run dangerously amok. the bang-up cast have a field day with the colorfully grotesque rogues' gallery of blithely amoral and treacherous hoodlums: ellen barkin as tough, sultry moll rita everly, henry silva as vic's reliable right-hand man sleepy joe carisle, gregory hines as philosophical smoothie jules flamingo, diane lane as vic's sweet, perky mistress grace, billy drago as the slimy wells, and christopher jones as brutish rub-out artist nicholas falco. bishop makes the most of his juicy secondary role as lethal and laconic ace assassin nick. popping up in nifty bits are billy idol as a blustery thug, michael j. pollard as the ill-fated red, joey bishop as mortician mr. gottlieb, rob reiner as a jolly chauffeur, and richard pryor as jimmy the gravedigger. byrne's delightfully insane duet with singer paul anka on "my way" rates as a definite sidesplitting highlight. a tense and amusing climactic mexican stand-off likewise tickles the funny bone something hysterical. frank byers' slick cinematography, the outrageously nutty dialogue, earl rose's jazzy cocktail lounge score, and a choice soundtrack of vintage swinging golden oldies all further enhance the engagingly peculiar charm of this immensely entertaining one-of-a-kind curio.