anna (ursula andress) is brought in as an official r.n. by ex-lover benito varotto (duilio del prete), ostensibly to nurse an aging widower, count leonida bottacin (mario piso), back to health after a heart attack. but benito is actually leading a group of heirs and businessmen, including american entrepreneur mr. kitch (jack palance), with ulterior motives, reflected by what anna hopefully will actually accomplish with the count. he has a history of, well, liking women, and would be actually a bit more "vulnerable" as he is cured. the bad guys get derailed as anna does not go along and grows closer to the count. the ending might be said to be ironic, but it is probably better described as predictable. <br /><br />but so much for plot--this film is totally an erotic comedy, from start to finish, and oh how good. there are many nude scenes, including ones of anna and jole, one of the malevolent heiresses, played by luciana paluzzi. both ursula and luciana are noteworthy continental ex-bond women, and thus fulfill the fantasies of male viewers. as she did in thunderball (remember fiona volpe), luciana plays a femme fatale, sort of, although less elegantly.<br /><br />perhaps the best scene is anna's (slow) complete strip and jump in bed with the young adone, the "other patient" (who incredibly is resisting), in an attempt to find out what he knows about the plot. but even at this point she is already two-faced (for the better), for she has decided not to go along. however, benito is more than a two-timer with women, having had lengthy flings in the past with both anna and jole, and the rival best erotic scene follows an invective-filled (to put it mildly) argument between him and jole. this is a standing-up encounter in which luciana is down to black panties only. another nice one is ursula swimming fully naked in the estate's pool. the count is free, as the client, to put his hands wherever he wants to on ursula, and he takes advantage. hey, somehow i've gone back to the actresses' names in my descriptions. erotic scenes involving other women include an amusing naked wine cellar chase. "the sensuous nurse" is compact, 77 minutes, but it doesn't need to be--it is enjoyable without interruption, start to finish. definitely recommended.<br /><br />