i'm not a fan of adam sandler. in fact, i don't think i've ever liked him in anything i've seen him in. the opening scene of this movie confirmed my worst fears. there was adam sandler, playing a somewhat ridiculous looking character riding around new york city on a motor scooter, looking pitiful and lost. typical sandler-type loser character again, i thought. i almost gave up then and there. but then, as i stuck with this, i actually discovered something i never knew before: adam sandler can act! he is truly outstanding in this movie as charlie, a lost and lonely figure, whose entire family (including the dog) was killed in one of the hijacked planes on 9/11 and who has apparently lost all touch with reality as a result. don cheadle plays his former college roommate who unexpectedly reconnects with charlie and takes it on as his mission to help him get better. of course, cheadle's alan johnson has his own problems and sources of unhappiness, and somehow these two men manage to help each other through their difficulties. the two of them made a completely believable team, and sandler in particular made charlie real, working through his emotions and feelings. this is not a sandler comedy. if your looking for that go to some of his other, sillier, stuff. this is a pretty heavy movie - sometimes sad, sometimes hopeful and always engrossing. there are some funny parts in it. i loved the scene in which charlie convinces alan to confront his partners by reminding him of how tough he was in college, and then the conversation the two of them have afterward.<br /><br />i personally didn't think that saffron burrows added much to the movie as donna, an obviously needy patient of johnson's. the only reason for the character seemed (based on one flashback) to be that she looked eerily like charlie's late wife, but that was never really developed, and i just didn't care that much for the character. do look for the part of the judge, however, played by donald sutherland, who i thought nailed the part bang-on. as far as i'm concerned, though, this is sandler's movie, and kudos to him for a great performance. definitely his best in my opinion. 8/10