on september 11th, 2001, millions were killed; but 2,819 lives ended in an especially gruesome manner. they were the victim of a plane hijacking by extremists whose sole mission was to destroy buildings, but more importantly, people. this film takes an in-depth look at four people whose lives were cut short by this disastrous event and one man whose life was shattered by the loss of their lives.<br /><br />charlie fineman (played by adam sandler), a former dentist living in new york, loses his wife and three children on september 11th as they were on their way to los angeles. emotionally annihilated by the events, he eventually loses touch with everyone who reminds him of his former life; including his in-laws and his best friend (played, respectively, by robert klein, melinda dillon, and mike bender). he goes into completely denial and does his best to forget about his former life. this continues until he runs into his old college friend alan johnson (played by don cheadle) who fineman doesn't seem to remember. the two begin to catch up, but fineman believes johnson was sent by people from his former life to persuade him into finding help. slowly, but surely, fineman regains his trust for johnson.<br /><br />while all this is happening, alan johnson's life is going down the wrong path. he is a self man (dentist) who helps start a dental practice. one day, a patient of his named donna remar (played by saffron burrows) attempts to make a move on him, telling him that she would like to perform oral sex for him. this is an unwelcome surprise to dr. johnson since he is a married man with two children. as he is coming home from work on a particular workday, he sees his old friend (fineman) and tries to flag him down. he is unsuccessful, but he gets another opportunity and persuades fineman to get a come of coffee with him to catch up, despite the fact that fineman doesn't know who he is.<br /><br />one of the most interesting things about this movie is its use of music as a motif. one of fineman's physiological crutches is music, particularly springsteen and other classic rock artists. when fineman is asked to open up about his past or to talk about things he finds unpleasant, he puts on his earphones and drowns out the world with things his music.<br /><br />when the film was over, i had me thinking: how would i cope with the loss of my family? how would i deal with such a tragic events. it's something we don't really think about too often. we always think they'll be there and we often take them for granted, whether we intend to or not. we usually realize how important they are when it's too late; and a blow like that can destroy someone physically, emotionally, and physiologically. i really don't know how i would be able to deal with something like that. would i face the problem head on, cope, and move on with my life or would i just put my headphones on and block the world?