this film screened last night at austin's paramount theater as part of the sxsw film festival. we were graced with the presence of director mike binder and stars adam sandler and don cheadle who took audience questions after the film. it is a remarkable and powerful film about what it is like to lose yourself and begin to find your way back. the performances are phenomenal and the story manages to be both tragic and funny in a way that is all too rare. (the trailer for the film tries a little too hard to emphasize the comedic aspects.)<br /><br />this is a breakout role for adam sandler. while he has begun to transition to more dramatic roles with punch-drunk love and spanglish, this role is a significant step forward for him as a dramatic actor. he deserves an oscar nomination as he continues down to transition to more dramatic roles as tom hanks did and jim carrey is also doing. in this role, he seemed to be trying to channel dustin hoffman in rain man. although playing an autistic man is certainly very different than sandler's traumatized character, both characters for different reasons are trapped in their own worlds of child-like isolation and confusion.<br /><br />don cheadle's performance is less surprising, but just as good. after hotel rwanda and crash, we've come to expect remarkable nuanced performances from cheadle. he has the qualities of sincerity and honesty that comes through in this role. but he, too, is also broken and struggling if not in the such profound ways as sandler's character. cheadle is struggling with difficulties in both his marriage and in his professional life as a dentist. together the characters played by cheadle and sandler struggle to heal each other in the way that true friends often do (in a way that reminds me of matt damon and robin williams in good will hunting). they are both searching for that part of the themselves that they have lost and trying to find again.<br /><br />reign over me is one of the best major studio films to be released this year. the soundtrack, which is almost another character in the plot is wonderful. the filming in the streets of new york - a city that suffered a great tragedy and has also had to heal itself - is also quite beautiful. the supporting roles by jada pinkett smith, liv tyler, saffron burrows (in a very odd role), donald sutherland, and mike binder himself are all quite good.<br /><br />writer/director mike binder has really delivered a story that so many will be able to connect with on numerous levels. this is a story about grief, family, healing, male friendship, mental health, and the meaning of love. reign over me does not disappoint. the film is almost hypnotic as it draws you into the lives of its characters. hollywood would have a much better reputation if it made more character-driven charming films like reign over me.