this modern film noir with its off beat humour and dizzying succession of plot twists delivers a story full of surprises, dangerous characters and excellent entertainment from start to finish. it's impossible not to empathise with the honest, unassuming hero or to be gripped by the ways in which he tries to navigate his way out of the terrible predicaments that he finds himself in, so all you can do is fasten your seat belt and enjoy the ride.<br /><br />the story of an ordinary guy who makes a poor decision and then finds that the repercussions propel him into an uncontrollable sequence of events from which he is unable to extricate himself is pure film noir. the same is true of the themes of murder, deceit, corruption and duplicity which are pervasive throughout. many of the familiar noir visual motifs are also present, such as the way in which cigarette smoke is lit, the rain soaked roads at night, the heavily shadowed interiors and the lines of shadow (created by louvred doors) across people's faces.<br /><br />michael williams (nicolas cage), an injured war veteran without money or a job, stops off at a bar in red rock, wyoming and is mistaken by the proprietor wayne brown (j t walsh) for a hit man that he's arranged to employ to murder his wife suzanne (lara flynn boyle). michael, a naturally reticent person, does nothing to disabuse wayne of his misapprehension, especially as he could use a job and at first doesn't realise what he'd be expected to do. after having been told what his mission is and been given a $5,000 advance, he goes to see suzanne and warns her about wayne's plan. she doesn't seem overly concerned about the danger she's in and offers michael double the fee wayne had offered, for him to eliminate her husband.<br /><br />michael decides to take the money he'd received from both parties and leave town. his plan fails however, when he accidentally drives into a man who is standing in the middle of the road and decides to take him to hospital to receive treatment for his injuries. at the hospital, things get more complicated when it emerges that the patient is suzanne's lover and he has two bullets in his stomach. this leads to the local law enforcement officers getting involved and the revelation that wayne is the sheriff!! from this point on, things get even more complicated and also decidedly more dangerous especially when the real hit man, lyle from dallas (dennis hopper) arrives on the scene.<br /><br />"red rock west" has some great moments of suspense, (an example of this is the scene in which michael makes his escape from wayne's bar) and also some great performances from its very strong cast. nicolas cage's expressions are extremely natural and convincing as he reacts to a variety of situations with anxiety, surprise or uncertainty and j t walsh is also particularly good as a deceptive character who's always concealing more than he's actually saying. dennis hopper is intensely threatening as the vicious contract killer (a role he plays with great gusto) and lara flynn boyle looks suitably cold and calculating as the femme fatale. dwight yoakam also provides some good support and moments of humour in his cameo role as a no nonsense truck driver.<br /><br />incredibly, "red rock west" was originally destined to be denied a general cinema release but has justifiably emerged from its modest beginnings to eventually be recognised as the great movie that it really is.