the man in the white suit, like i'm all right jack, takes a dim view of both labor and capital. alec guinness is a scientific genius - but an eccentric one (he has never gotten his university degree due to an...err...accident in a college laboratory). he manages to push himself into various industrial labs in the textile industry. when the film begins he is in michael gough's company, and gough (in a memorable moment) is trying to impress his would-be father-in-law (cecil parker) by showing him the ship-shape firm he runs. while having lunch with parker and parker's daughter (joan greenwood), gough gets a message regarding some problems about the lab's unexpectedly large budget problems. he reads the huge expenditures (due to guinness's experiments), and chokes on his coffee.<br /><br />guinness goes on to work at parker's firm, and repeats the same tricks he did with gough - but parker discovers it too. greenwood has discovered what guinness is working on, and convinces parker to continue the experiments (but now legally). the result: guinness and his assistant has apparently figured out how to make an artificial fiber that can constantly change the electronic bonds within it's molecular structure so that (for all intents and purposes) the fiber will remain in tact for good. any textile made from it will never fade, get dirty, or wear out - it will last forever.<br /><br />guinness has support from a female shop steward, but not her chief. he sees guinness as selling out to the rich. but when he explains to them what he's done, they turn against him. if everyone has clothes that will last forever then they will not need new clothes! soon parkers' fellow textile tycoons (led by gough, ernest theisinger - in a wonderful performance, and howard marion-crawford) are equally panic stricken by what may end their businesses. they seek to suppress the invention. with only greenwood in his corner (although parker sort of sympathizes with him), guinness tries to get the news of his discovery to the public.<br /><br />in the end, guinness is defeated by science as well as greed. but he ends the film seeing the error in his calculations, and we guess that one day he may still pull off his discovery after all.<br /><br />it's a brilliant comedy. but is the argument for suppression valid? at one point the difficulties of making the textile are shown (you have to heat the threads to a high temperature to actually enable the ends of the material to be united. there is nothing that shows the cloth will stretch if the owner gets fat (or contract if the owner gets thin). are we to believe that people only would want one set of clothing for ever? what happened to fashion changes and new styles? and the cloth is only made in the color white (making guinness look like a white knight). we are told that color dye would have to be added earlier in the process. wouldn't that have an effect on the chemical reactions that maintain the structure of the textile? <br /><br />alas this is not a science paper, but a film about the hypocrisies of labor and capital in modern industry. as such it is brilliant. but those questions i mention keep bothering me about the validity of suppressing guinness' invention