when a movie shocks you with it's disturbing, brooding atmosphere, and grabs you by the throat with it's stunning cinematography, you just know that you have stumbled upon a treat, masterpiece of a film. although with most modern movies, extremely enjoyable as some are, those that really shock you into focus are the strongest, and are the ones that are most critically acclaimed and mostly, stick with you for a life time. i say, proudly, that i am a fan of movies that disturb, not just horror movies, but those that send a vibe laden with foreboding. movies like breakdown and the missing, that send a chill down your spine, making you think "holy crap, that could happen to me", and visually entice you, are up there with some of my favorite aspects in a movie. because i am only 21, i did not grow up with actors like burt renyolds, jon voight and ned beatty, albeit i am familiar with them, i didn't watch them grow and proceed as actors, as opposed to actors now like shia labouf and justin long. i must say, after the long hype and witnessing deliverance for the first time, i was so admired by these veteran actors in a movie made more than 30 years ago, and still lives it's terror up in competition to modern movies. burt renyolds plays lewis, the macho self appointed leader of a group of four friends on a canoe trip down a fictitious river before a dam is made, filling the whole wilderness in water. renyolds' character is an experienced adventurer, sort of no nonsense, and filled with machismo. witnessing him portray the tough guy, made me think differently about him as an actor, as i have only seen him as a seedy old guy or an angry politician. the dialog the director provides for his character gives him enough malice to be proved as a strong and even intimidating leader. ronny cox and ned beatty play as the novice adventurers, drew and bob respectively, joining in for the fun of a canoe trip. the actor that i thoroughly enjoyed watching was jon voight, once again i have only seen him as an older actor, however, unlike renyolds, i have quite liked voight's acting (and i don't regard anaconda when i say that), for example the national treasure movies. voight plays ed, whom, like lewis, is experienced in adventuring but is seen as a more reserved character, a reluctant hero/ leader and definitely lacks lewis' machismo. the film basically opens up with the four driving into a small town while asking to find someone to drive their cars to the bottom of the river whilst they canoe the rapids and camp along the riverside. you immediately get a creepy vibe from the hillbilly characters we are introduced to, like the imbred kid who plays the infamous "duelling banjo's" at the start of the film with ronny cox's character drew; and more so the two mountain men in the films pivotal and disturbing rape scene. as with all atmospheric movies, from this moment on, dread and confusion fills the characters as well as the audience and it is here we see the characters take shape and change form. the canoe trip that follows is expertly shot and it is from here the men fight against both human and nature's odds for survival. the film's cinematics do not let up, and i back that comment up with the scene in which ed fights one of the rapist mountain men with a composite bow. as ed falls on to one of his arrows and notices his enemy approaching him, cocks his rifle, only to shoot the floor as he falls with an arrow in his neck; was possible the greatest piece of cinematic shooting i have seen in a film. in wrapping up, deliverance is one film, who's dread and atmosphere carry the mood across and to this date, remains one of the best films in cinematic history.