this is one of the greatest films ever made. it's an all-time classic. the character played by ned beatty undergoes one of the greatest on screen transformations ever portrayed. he is a shallow, almost useless, overweight insurance salesman. he is proud of his ignorance, and yet judges the "backwards hicks" to be the ignorant ones. when he compliments the old man on his hat, and the old man responds, "you don't know nothing'," the tone is set. it's true. he really doesn't "know nothing'." but one backwoods anal rape later, the man is practically a warrior. his shallow fake bravery is toned down into serious resolve. the old self is forever dead, left in some far off woods, soon to be under hundreds of feet of water. and what of lewis, our intrepid guide? lewis is a philosopher/hunter/warrior, and he's just about nuts. burt reynolds proved himself as an actor way back in 1972 in this film, completely giving himself in to this wonderful role. who wouldn't want to have a friend like lewis if one was to venture into the dangers of a forgotten/soon to be left behind world like the one our hapless travelers find themselves in. this film speaks to us on so many levels. the story feels real. it works as a complete action/adventure, with wonderful cinematography, and deliberate, grinding pacing. it works as a bit of a horror film, with the danger and almost surrealism of the encounter with the vile rednecks who objectify their "sow" ned beatty. but it also works as an art film, using incredible amounts of symbolism to convey truths that go to our very core. i have seen this film at least fifty times, and every time it comes on, i find i have to watch it. you have to watch it quite a few times to even begin to comprehend it. this is one deep movie. this is one well-acted movie. and this is one hell of a story. i gave it a 10 out of 10, and put it in my 10 all time greatest films ever made, along with schindler's list, casablanca, taxi driver, and sling blade, among others. movies that make you think. movies that take you beyond having to think. movies that use a story to make their point, without trying to preach to you. if you think you know deliverance, you might, but again, you might not. it really is that good.