what can you say about the film white fire. amazing? fantastic? disturbing? hilarious? these words are not big enough to describe the event which is white fire. from wobbly, garbled beginning to profound end, this movie will entertain throughout.<br /><br />our movie begins in the woods of a country somewhere in the world. a family is hiding from unmarked soldiers in costume shop uniforms. when the father separates from the mother and their childen, you get a real sense of what kind of movie you're about to watch. father makes sure to roll down hills in his all white outfit, and is polite as he gets people's attention before he shoots them, but alas, dad is burned alive in what looks like a very unsupervised, unsafe stunt. meanwhile, mom and the kids are running down a beach with an armed soldier trailing about 5 feet behind them. he too gives a stern warning before action in the form of a bizarre "halt!", and then promptly wastes the mother. this action sequence sets up the happy childhood of our heroes bo and ingred.<br /><br />so now we fast forward about 20 years (30 if you're honest about the hero's age) to beautiful turkey, where bo and ingred have settled as professional thieves, or diamond prospectors, or something. ingred works at a diamond mine where she helps herself to the goods, while bo (masterfully played by the dynamic robert ginty) drives around the desert in his denim outfits. bo and ingrid have an interesting relationship. they don't seem to have any friends other than each other, and they spend all of their time together. that coupled with the fact that bo has expressed his desire to sleep with his sister as evidenced in lines such as "you know its a shame you're my sister" he says to her while she's stark naked, make for a very dynamic duo. bo is then crushed when ingrid is killed, as he wanders the beaches of turkey with his ceremonial pink grief scarf. a renewal of hope occurs when bo finds a girl who looks like ingrid, and gives her plastic surgery to make her look exactly like ingrid. this opens the door for bo to have sex with his sister without it being technically wrong. bo is a real fan of ethical grey areas, and he is overjoyed with his new love.<br /><br />so anyway, there's a lot of fun action scenes, ridiculous violence, great acting, impossible to follow plot-lines, fred "the hammer" williamson (for some reason), and a big chunk of dirty ice which is supposed to be a giant diamond (which later explodes). all of these things are great, but the bo and ingrid relationship is what makes this movie special....really special. so i heartily encourage everyone to behold the majesty that is white fire. you may be glad you did..or not.