having been driven out of the house and into the theater by the sweltering heat, i could not have been more pleased. the road to perdition, directed by sam mendes (american beauty), is destined to become one of the greatest movies of all time. perhaps i'm just getting old; perhaps i've just seen the same themes recycled time and again. but this movie is indeed different.<br /><br />the story opens with young michael sullivan jr. facing out to the sea, contemplating the duality of his father's legacy -- one of the best men to ever live, one of the most evil. this duality snakes its way throughout the movie. the story revolves around crime boss john rooney (paul newman) and michael sullivan (tom hanks), the young man rooney once took in and who now serves as his personal "angel of death." rooney is tied by blood to his own son, but tied by love and loyalty to michael. young michael jr., intrigued by the stories he reads, steals away in his father's car one night while dad goes off to "work" with connor rooney, heir to the family "business." connor lets the situation get out of hand, and what was meant only to be a warning turns into murder -- witnessed by michael jr. upon the discovery that young michael has seen what he should not have seen, the plot is set in motion as conflicting loyalties collide. soon, michael sr. is on the run with his young son, pursued by contract killer harlen "the reporter" maguire (jude law).<br /><br />i will disclose no further details in order to avoid any potential spoilers. however, i strongly encourage viewers to examine the many dualities that present themselves in the movie: problems between sons and fathers (michael sr & jr., john rooney & son connor), between the world at home and the world at "work", between good and evil, between those who pretend to be men of god and those who really are, between "clean" money and "dirty", between the town of perdition and perdition as hell. and along the way, savor the visual brilliance of cinematographer conrad l. hall (9 nominations, 2 oscars for best cinematography): rain pouring off fedoras, shots through mirrors (especially on swinging doors), tommy-gun flashes from out of the shadows, absent any sound. not only has 75-year-old hall given us perhaps the best cinematic product of his career, but 77-year-old paul newman offers one of his best performances ever.<br /><br />yes ... i may be getting old. but i've seen a lot ... and this is fresh and invigorating. the road to perdition presents a lasting and loving tribute to the gangster genre, to films of the 40s, to dark comic-book figures lurking in the darkness, to villains and heroes, to american film in general. go see it!