this 1984 version of the dickens' classic `a christmas carol,' directed by clive donner, stars george c. scott as ebenezer scrooge. by this time around, the challenge for the filmmaker was to take such familiar material and make it seem fresh and new again; and, happily to say, with this film donner not only met the challenge but surpassed any expectations anyone might have had for it. he tells the story with precision and an eye to detail, and extracts performances from his actors that are nothing less than superlative, especially scott. one could argue that the definitive portrayal of scrooge-- one of the best known characters in literary fiction, ever-- was created by alastair sim in the 1951 film; but i think with his performance here, scott has now achieved that distinction. there is such a purity and honesty in his scrooge that it becomes difficult to even consider anyone else in the role once you've seen scott do it; simply put, he is scrooge. and what a tribute it is to such a gifted actor; to be able to take such a well known figure and make it so uniquely his own is quite miraculous. it is truly a joy to see an actor ply his trade so well, to be able to make a character so real, from every word he utters down to the finest expression of his face, and to make it all ring so true. it's a study in perfection.<br /><br />the other members of the cast are splendid as well, but then again they have to be in order to maintain the integrity of scott's performance; and they do. frank finlay is the ghost of jacob marley; a notable turn, though not as memorable, perhaps, as the one by alec guinness (as marley) in the film, `scrooge.' angela pleasence is a welcome visage as the spirit of christmas past; edward woodward, grand and boisterous, and altogether convincing as the spirit of christmas present; and michael carter, grim and menacing as the spirit of christmas yet to come.<br /><br />david warner hits just the right mark with his bob cratchit, bringing a sincerity to the role that measures up well to the standard of quality set by scott's scrooge, and susannah york fares just as well as mrs. cratchit. the real gem to be found here, though, is the performance of young anthony walters as tiny tim; it's heartfelt without ever becoming maudlin, and simply one of the best interpretations-- and the most real-- ever presented on film.<br /><br />the excellent supporting cast includes roger rees (fred holywell, and also the narrator of the film), caroline langrishe (janet holywell), lucy gutteridge (belle), michael gough (mr. poole) and joanne whalley (fan). a flawless presentation, this version of `a christmas carol' sets the standard against which all others must be gauged; no matter how many versions you may have seen, watching this one is like seeing it for the first time ever. and forever after, whenever you think of scrooge, the image your mind will conjure up will be that of george c. scott. a thoroughly entertaining and satisfying experience, this film demands a place in the annual schedule of the holiday festivities of every home. i rate this one 10/10.