as i understand it, after the chinese took over hong kong, the infamous cat. 3 hong kong movies kind of disappeared. at least until now, and what an amazing movie this one is. i knew it was a rough crime drama going in, but being the first cat. 3 i've purchased that's been made recently, i wasn't sure what to expect.<br /><br />a cambodian hit-man goes to hong kong to knock off the wife of a judge, who is also a lawyer. turns out, the judge made the arrangements for the hit-man, because she was divorcing the judge, and threatening to take all his money. this is all known within the first ten minutes, so nothing is being given away. after the hit, the cops locate the hit-man pretty fast, but in trying to arrest him, several police officers and civilians are killed. he eludes the police and now the race is on to catch the guy, before he escapes back to cambodia. this is a movie that never stops, and hardly gives the viewer a chance to catch their breath. yes, it is very violent and intense, many cops are killed, as the hit-man proves very very hard to track, and take down when they do locate him. along the way, the hit-man in trying to hide in a dump, finds a women being raped and mistreated by some man. he helps her, and saves her from the guy, and she persuades the hit-man to take her along with him in his escape. i loved this movie, it's like a roller-coaster that just keeps moving and moving at high speed, as one incident leads to another, and the police at times are just as bad or worse as the hit-man. the acting is exceptionally good, and the location filming and photography is at time breathtaking. there's no let up in this movie, not even with the very very incredible ending. the ending is pretty much unbelievable, and also a fitting end to all the action and violence. yes, the violence is brutal at times, but this is a very no nonsense crime drama, that will knock your socks off. "dog eat dog" definitely needs a more widespread release, including an r1 release for sure. great movie, highly recommended.