this was a very entertaining movie and i really enjoyed it, i don't normally rent movies like these (ie. indie flicks) however, i was attracted to the film because it had an incredible cast which included jamie kennedy, whom i have loved since the scream trilogy. the movie director took a risk (and it is a risky risk) in telling the lives of many (and i mean many) different people and having the intertwine at various intervals. taking that risk was a good idea because it's end result is an exceedingly good film. <br /><br />the film has a few main characters; dwight (jamie kennedy) - a disgruntled fortune cookie writer whose relationship with his girlfriend is on the rocks because of an argument. wallace gregory (john carroll lynch) - an airplane loader/technician who has a love for all living things (except, perhaps meter maids) and who despite his good heart has an increasing amount of bad luck. cyr (brian cox) - the owner of a chinese restaurant/donut shop who is a germaphobe and because of is his fear of germs places his assistant/cook sung -(alexis cruz) under pressure to keep up with his phobia. ernie - (christopher bauer) is married to olive - (christina kirk) who he is convinced is trying to; stop him have fun, look ridiculous, go insane, and not live a normal life. they begin to have petty and almost crazy arguments and olive seriously begins to have doubts about ernie. gordon - (grant heslov) is a man whose life isn't going very well, as bad things begin to add up in his life he decides to take it in hand. mitchel - (jon huertas) is convinced that gwen - (alexandra westcourt) is the girl of his dreams and that they are destined for each other, though she is more skeptical. he attempts to woo her every chance he gets and he certainly makes attempts! johnston - (michael hitchcock) has just been fired from his job and has doubts about his role as provider, he takes another job that he just isn't suited for. his wife annelle - (arabella field) is comforting through out his job loss experience until she learns that johnston wasn't quite the loving husband she thought he was.<br /><br />all in all i definitely suggest this movie!<br /><br />-erica