the only reason i'm giving this a 9 is that the other kid actors who played tadashi's tormentors were not up to the job. i presume they were just kids who happened to be the right age and handy, but they were not well coached, and their scenes were a minor annoyance. <br /><br />i say not to judge this by u.s. standards because it's full of ambiguities and the kinds of equivocations that japanese culture readily embraces, and is not beholden to the black-hat/ white-hat moral constraints u.s. kids' films are routinely subjected to. for example, there is a preciously funny moment when tadashi's small band of yokai companions finds themselves let down and abandoned by the other yokai, and shojo--the avuncular kirin herald--does what many a stressed-out japanese adult would do. hint: this would not happen in a disney film. this picture also has the best product placement for beer you will ever see in a kids' movie. <br /><br />early on, there's a moment where a school teacher smacks a couple of bullies on the head with her attendance book. there was a tv commercial in japan a couple years before this movie came out. it was a stop-motion clay animation about a kid who's depressed and playing guitar and singing the blues in his room. his mother yells at him from downstairs to shut up. then, someone gives him a candy bar and he cheers up and sings a happy tune, but his mother comes in and tells him to shut up again and gives him a dope slap that leaves a dent in his forehead. i mention this commercial, because it was considered funny, and i didn't hear any objections to it while i was there. there is a lot more bloodshed and physical cruelty on screen in "the great yokai war" than one would find in a disney movie. as a parent, if this were a u.s. film, i would be up in arms about such things, although not necessarily the moral lessons drawn at the end of the picture, which, of course, are also not black and white. since it's a japanese movie, i accept that those cultural norms allow for imagery that would not get past the standards and practices cops in a u.s. production. however, i'd probably be a little uneasy taking young kids to see it without giving them some sort of pre-show briefing and/or post-show debriefing about the violence and other off- color stuff, or i'd wait till they're older to show it to them.