stan laurel and oliver hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history, and deservedly so, so i am happy to see any of their films. professor noodle (lucien littlefield) is nearing the completion of his rejuvenation formula, with the ability to reverse ageing, after twenty years. ollie and stan are the chimney sweeps that arrive to do their job, and very quickly ollie wants to get away from stan making mistakes. ollie goes to the roof to help with the other end of the brush at the top of the chimney, but stan in the living room ends up pushing the him back in the attic. after breaking an extension, stan gets a replacement, a loaded gun, from off the wall, and of course it fires the brush off. stan goes up to have a look, and ollie, standing on the attic door of the roof, falls into the greenhouse. stan asks if he was hurt, and ollie only answers with "i have nothing to say." ollie gets back on the roof, and he and stan end up in a tug and pull squabble which ends up in ollie falling down and destroying the chimney. ollie, hatless, in the fireplace is hit on the head by many bricks coming down, and the butler jessup (sam adams) is covered in chimney ash smoke, oh, and ollie still has nothing to say to stan. the boys decide to clean up the mess, and when stan tears the carpet with the shovel, ollie asks "can't you do anything right", and stan replies "i have nothing to say", getting the shovel bashed on his head. as ollie holds a bag for stan to shovel in the ashes, they get distracted by a painting on the wall, and the ashes end up down ollie's trousers, so stan gets another shovel bashed on the head. professor noodle finishes his formula, and does a final test on a duck, with a drop in a tank of water, changing it into a duckling. he also shows the boys his success, turning the duckling into an egg, and he next proposes to use a human subject, i.e. his butler. while he's gone, the boys decide to test the formula for themselves, but ollie ends up being knocked by stan into the water tank with all the formula. in the end, what was once ollie comes out, an ape, and when stan asks him to speak, all ollie ape says is "i have nothing to say", and stan whimpers. filled with wonderful slapstick and all classic comedy you could want from a black and white film, it is an enjoyable film. stan laurel and oliver hardy were number 7 on the comedians' comedian. very good!