i agree that the movie is a little slow at spots having many scenes of mundane everyday life and no dialog. and i wasn't impressed right after i watched it. however, after a few days, i realized that the movie stays with me and it evokes a melancholy mood which lingers in my mind. my appreciation of this movie increases. it certainly merits a higher consideration than those movies that are instantly forgettable.<br /><br />as many have commented, the movie is non-linear and that's a hallmark of european film-making as opposed to the linear narrative form that hollywood favors. i don't really know whether it's true or not. many also dislike its confusing structure and lack of clear explanations. to those viewers, i don't think there is much i can say to change their opinions. however, for others who have yet to see the film, do expect to be challenged and don't expect the film to supply all the answers and you might come away enjoying it more than you would otherwise.<br /><br />the movie skips around a bit but really chronicles just 3 time periods. pay attention to the hair style and you can easily separate out 2 of the 3 periods. it is also not as confusing as suggested; just enjoy and it'll all be clear at the end.<br /><br />yes, lots of things are left unsaid or not shown, and lots of situations are left unexplored. but isn't that what life is like? a lot of time you're not sure of the motives of your friends/loved ones unless you confront them and even then, you can never be 100% sure if they told you the whole truth. this type of movies forces us to interpret the reasons behind the actions. the movie does, however, leave enough hints for you to make some reasonable assumptions. for example, mathieu is manic depressive, to the point of suicidal. why? i don't know, maybe his life is not turning out exactly as he expects it; maybe he misses his family but hasn't forgiven his father for abandoning his sick mother at her hours of need; maybe after all he sacrifices for cedric, rearranging and indeed, shattering his life to be with him, he realizes that it is all "coming undone". i think the director meant to show us that he has always been a little off, mentality fragile by that scene w/ the dead bird. maybe he has a very sensitive psyche and all these stresses are taking a toll on him. but we're also shown that he is not some animal torturing psycho by his loving interaction w/ the stray cat. also, there is one conversation between the doctor and cedric that sheds light on the reason behind the breakup and maybe the suicide attempt. the doctor asks him if everything is okay, and cedric thinks so even though he cheated on mathieu once, but that's nothing, according to cedric. is that the only reason, we don't know, there are probably others, all mixed up together. is it paramount that we know exactly what they are? i don't think so, for this movie. another telltale sign that they are ultimately not compatible is the historical ruins scene. mathieu is interested in studying the ruins, cedric is not. he is the one w/ the raging hormone who focuses only on the physical side without an intellectual side that mathieu obviously needs.<br /><br />finally, the ending is really rather hopeful and sweet. i was pleasantly surprised by the turn of events after the bleak tone that edges toward the end.<br /><br />i have two complaints for the dvd. one is the sound. it's very soft. i had to crank up the volume to hear the dialog and then when it switched to a bar or outdoor crowd scene, it became too loud. the other is that the subtitles can't be turn off; they stay on the screen. most foreign movie dvds not released by a major studio are shoddy this way unfortunately.