what a strangely wonderful, if sometimes slight and bulky, big-budget fantasy this is. takashi miike had already proved, by the time he got to the great yokhai war, that he could dip into other films aside from his supposed niche of the crime/yakuza genre (visitor q and andromedia showed this, the former great the latter lesser). but here miike, in his first and only co-screen writing credit no less, proves that he can deliver the goods on a post-modern soup of mythical fantasy conventions, and with it boatload of cgi, creature-effects and make-up, and an epic battle that is more like a "festival" than something out of lord of the rings. the comparisons can be made far and wide, to be sure, and the most obvious to jump on would be miyazaki, for the seemingly unique mixture of kids-as-big-heroes, power-hungry sorcerers looking for the energy of the earth as the main source, machinery as the greatest evil, and many bizarrely defined, flamboyantly designed creatures (or yokai of the title). but there can also be comparisons made to star wars, especially to the gungan battle in tpm, and to the whole power-play between good and evil with similar forces. or to anime like samurai 7. or, of course, to henson's films. and through all of these comparisons, and even through the flaws or over-reaching moments, it's miike all the way with the sensibilities of effects and characters. <br /><br />here, ryunosuke kamiki plays tadashi, the prototypical kid who starts out sort of gullible and sensitive to things in the world, but will become the hero in a world going into darkness. the darkness is from an evil sorcerer, who gets his energy from all of the rage and wretched vibes in the human world, and who is also starting to put to death the spirits and other creatures, the yokhai, into a fire that sends them into gigantic robots that have only one mission- to destroy and kill anything in their paths. tadashi gets as pumped up to fight sato the sorcerer as the yokai once sato's main minion and cohort, agi (kill bill's chiaki kuriyama, another great villainies) steals tadashi's little furry companion, a sunekosuri. soon, things come to a head, in a climax that brings to mind many other fantasy films and stories, but can only be contained, up to a point, by miike and his crew. i would probably recommend the great yokai war for kids, but in the forward note that it's not some watered down fantasy in american circles. this has creatures galore, including a one-eyed umbrella stand, and a walking, talking wall, not to mention a turtle, a fire serpent, and a woman who became cursed by sato. so the variety is on high on that end, and one might almost feel like the creatures and effects- which grows to unfathomable heights when the "festival" hits with the yokai reaching hundreds of miles in scope. but there's also a sense of fantasy being strong in both the light and the dark, and sunekosuri becomes perhaps the greatest emotional tool at miike's disposal (and not just because it's cuteness squared); where else to get an audience riled up than over a little furry ball of fury, who ends up in a tragic battle with tadashi in robot form? <br /><br />yet through all of this, the sense of anarchy that can be found in the brightest spots of miike's career is here as well, which distinguishes it from its animated, muppet and sci-fi counterparts. there's the bizarre humor as usual, including a song dedicated to akuzi beans at a crucial moment in the climax, and more than a few flights of fancy with the creatures and fight scenes (i loved, for example, the guy with the big blue head who has to make it smaller, or the anxious turtle-yokai). the biggest danger with miike's access to bigger special effects and computer wizardry, which he flirts with, is overkill on this end. he's got everything down, i'm sure, with storyboards, and he creates some memorable impressions with some compositions (one of them is when all is said and done, and tadashi and the 'other' human character are in the middle of the tokyo rubble in an overhead shot), but the cgi is sometimes a little unconvincing with the robots, and the interplay skirts on being too flamboyant, and some visuals, like the overlay of the yokai spreading the word about the big festival on the map, just seem weak and pat. i almost wondered if miike might dip into (bad) spy kids territory, quite frankly.<br /><br />but this liability aside, the great yokai war provides more than a share of excitement, goofy thrills, and innocent melodrama that came with many of the best childhood fantasies. it owes a lot to cinema, as well as traditional japanese folklore, but the screws are always turning even in its most ludicrous and veeringly confusing beats. it's not the filmmaker at his very best, but working in experimentation in a commercial medium ends up working to his advantage. it's got a neat little message, and lots of cool adventure. 7.5/10