i really, really enjoyed watching this movie! at first, seeing its poster i thought it was just another easy romantic comedy ... but it is simply more than this! i personally believe that this idea (that i'm sure a good part of the viewers had just before they saw the movie) it's yet another important part of the big concept of this movie itself (or even of its marketing strategy)! what i mean is: nowadays we are slaves to images! to impressions! i went to the cinema to view this film having the wrong impression, the wrong expectations, and at the end i felt how superficial i could be! to exemplify it comes to my mind the sequence near the end in which sidney buys the plane ticket to go back to new york and as he is asked to 'give an autograph', meaning to sign for the ticket, he believes that just because he got on tv thanks to the scandal at the awards he is now some kind of celebrity. and this is just, i believe, the climax of this main theme around which the movies revolves. above this, i believe the movie also offers us a solution to get along with this, illustrated throughout the movie by sidney's attitude: don't become too serious about yourself or about anybody else ... "even saints were people in the beginning" ... as sophie once says in the movie. the saints of the moment are the stars. we attribute them an 'aura' of perfection, of eternal happiness, but the reality is much less than that. even the saints of any religion are images, ideal models of how to behave and how to live your life. even they were not for real ... they became 'for real' after they died and we looked back at them. and that's the catch: we need our saints! we need our stars! we strive for them as if it wasn't for them we wouldn't have anything to strive for. and television and all other media are means to create and capture our strivings. we desperately need benchmarks in regard to which to measure ourselves. and that's how we got in the cinema to watch this movie in the first place: to see if we can fit the benchmark, or if the benchmark is to small for us. this time it was larger than we expected.