its taken a few viewings for me to really wrap myself around this one, but for me tears of kali is one of the horror highlights of the 00's and as far as independent horror goes a veritable masterpiece. an anthology horror, it takes on the story of the fictional taylor-eriksson group, a cult of sorts based in india whose members set out in search of ultimate self knowledge and healing of the psyche, with unpleasant results that echo down the years. with bookend segments set in india the film is made chiefly of three stories set in germany, illustrating the aftermath of the work of the taylor-eriksson group, with some pretty nasty gore at times. its an interesting set up as these things go, but what sets this film apart is the way the imagery is so carefully set up to develop the films horror. bad things have been unleashed and the general course of the film is a look at how the quest for self knowledge and ultimate therapy brings horror to patients, healers and others and the film is loaded with smart visual clues to the power of the dark forces with which it deals, dark forces unbound by time, place or even personality. good examples of this are found in the first story especially, dealing with a journalist interviewing a lady in a mental hospital. previous to this story we have seen lars eriksson and notably his wonky (lazy?) eye, we also see him healing or at least comforting a patient. the lady mental patient of the first story is seen in the same stance as eriksson healing a fellow patient, also as she wraps up the canvases from the art class that she runs among her fellow patients one of their pictures is seen, a face with lazy eye like erikssons. there are also references to folk in minuscule roles, extras and walk ons having extra sensory perceptions of what is going on in the film, showing the badness that has been unleashed spreading and able to almost infect others. there is more to the film philosophically than just evil within, it is a film about death, suffering and possible redemption too all bound in a structure derived from hindu beliefs in a fashion that seems like it might just be exploitation but has more relation to actual beliefs than one might expect (at least from the research that i did on wikipedia). writer/director andreas marschall definitely deserves some significant credit for his skill in constructing the film. as well as being thoughtful, the film is pretty chilling too, the soundtrack of bharti india and panama john has a great eerie piano jingle and there are a couple of notable performances, michael balaun as a sinister doctor and cora chilcot as a freaky patient especially good. the third story also has a fine turn from veteran mathieu carri`ere as a faith healer. the biggest problem of the film is that it is not that involving a lot of the time so potential for fear is lost but these and a couple of other performances achieve involvement pretty well. so, the film isn't quite as gripping as it might be, the acting occasionally off and the pacing too, but mostly i thought it was pretty great, if a shade short of its possible brilliance. well worth a look for adventurous horror fans i think.