it aired on tv yesterday, so i decided to check it out. this was one of the last bruce timm/paul dini dtv projects related to their old 1992 batman the animated series, after that jeff matsuda came along and re-imagined batman with his new the batman series, but anyway, the story of this new batman movie centers around the appearance of a new vigilante known as batwoman, however batman feels the need to stop her because of her extreme methods, and also in the meantime take down the pengiun and ruphert thorn who both are secretly working with carlton duquesne(who's having family troubles) and another villain(which is later revealed in the movie) on a weapons smuggling operation,they also put a bounty on the batwoman. the question is: who is this mysterious batwoman and is it possible that they could be more then one? it's up to batman to solve this mystery and stop penguin's latest operation. for an animated movie, it has a fairly complex plot and a serious tone, which is good. another plus was the complete redesign of the penguin who looks much more like the sophisticated mob boss we're used to seeing in the comics, unlike his previous designs that borrowed elements from tim burton vision of pengium(sewer rat and circus freak). even though the movie contains a love subplot it's never carried that far and doesn't derail the movie like say, batman forever. the voice acting is standard quality for these direct-to-video projects(if only batman: mask of phantasm took this route), kevin conroy still shines as batman/bruce wayne. and like i said despite running for some very short 80 minutes, it manages to make a pretty good(and complex) storyline complete with a few minor twists and bucket loads of action. there are a few downsides, however, nightwing is nowhere to be seen, and i'm sure barbara gordon and bruce wayne don't click as a couple, even though is just referenced, tim drake(aka robin) does very little in the movie and to be quite frank, i was never a big fan of paul dini and bruce timm's batman character design(especially in their batman shows post-btas), this the new adventures of batman and robin, well, it kinda makes batman look fat then rather a well-built bulked up individual(kinda like the jeff matsuda character model from the batman). bruce wayne seems a bit awkward, those blue eyes make him look more like clark kent then bruce(though it's true they do look very much alike). another downside is rupert throne(no explanation as to why he is in this deal, but it's safe to say he's has goons and what's a cut of the deal) which does very little more then hang out with the penguim or get himself hurt every time he points a gun at someone(count how many times this happens in the movie and you'll be surprised. overall, a good batman animated movie, worth at least a rental.