it begins with several of the principles on a stage run to albuquerque. gabby hayes(juke, sounds like duke) is the driver and begins his usual tirade against women in general, with his girlfriend pearl being an exception. he then relates a garbled version of the biblical story of samson to justify his retention of long whiskers against the wishes of pearl, who is the town barber, no less, and who claims if everyone followed his example, she would be out of business. this point will return to dominate the last scene in the film. gabby seems an irritation to some reviewers, but is a definite plus to this one. it's too bad he wasn't in more of the better randoph scott westerns to help lighten up randy's usual iron-jawed demeanor. also on this stage are randy(cole armin), his future wife(cathrine craig , as celia wallace), whom he is getting acquainted with, and a little girl(myrtle), to whom he soon becomes a hero when he rescues her from the runaway stage after it is held up by henchman of randy's wheelchair-bound uncle john armin(george cleveland), who essentially runs the town.<br /><br />randy soon learns that his uncle, and by extension, himself, is not exactly popular among the town folk. he does, however, quickly form a useful friendship with gabby. after he learns that uncle john was responsible for the stage holdup of his business competitor, celia wallace, and the associated murder, he demands that uncle john return the money and decides to work for celia and her brother ted(russell hayden), instead of for uncle john. <br /><br />as his rival's prospects rise, uncle john decides to plant an informant(barbara britton, as letty tyler) in the wallace office, to keep him informed as to when they are delivering ore from the mines to town so that he can sabotage their run. when this doesn't work, he resorts to the draconian tactic of staging an arson of his own office, for which randy is blamed. unfortunately, when the fire was discovered, randy was in letty's apartment confronting her with suggestive evidence that she was tipping off uncle john. myrtle and letty testify that he was in the apartment when the fire was discovered. this puts him and letty in the dog house with celia(his apparent beau) and ted(who hopes to woo letty). this news also ends uncle john's trust in letty as an informant, and he suggests she leave town. instead, she switches sides and tells the wallaces why randy was in her apartment. uncle john tries once again to sabotage their ore run, and when that fails, there is a general shootout in town. you can guess the results.<br /><br />the plot is well constructed and executed, with complicated relationships between the principles, and with a variety of obstacles for randy to overcome, with the sometimes aid of his associates. at least, randy was spared the necessity of bringing his uncle to justice. uncle john had a choice to avoid assassination, but arrogantly trusted that a woman wouldn't have the guts to carry out her threat. the presence of hayes and two beautiful wholesome single women, as well as little myrtle, much helped to lighten the otherwise tense atmosphere in this battle for survival, as uncle john put it.<br /><br />it seems odd that barbara britton, the "bad" girl, gets top female billing over catherine craig, randy's love interest. barbara's on camera time was much more limited. <br /><br />those who grew up on the lassie tv series featuring george cleveland as "gramps" will be surprised to find him playing such a mean controlling villain. we may wonder if his wheelchair-bound status has a bearing on this persona. this leaves him with few options for making a living in the wild west. without apparent family to help support him(except randy), he can't afford to have some upstart beat him out of the most profitable business in town. on the other hand, from his conversations, he probably achieved his status as the town "boss" before becoming wheelchair-bound.