the summary line above, spoken by james cloud (robert preston) to his brother tom (robert sterling) just about says it all. jim, aka kid wichita, has a way of making things happen, only trouble is, he usually leaves dead bodies where he's been. not the sort of mentoring tom envisions for younger brother jeff, who likes what he sees in jim, especially when defending their ranch against local texas cattlemen.<br /><br />the opening credits state 'introducing john barrymore jr. as the younger brother', in this his very first screen appearance. that seemed rather odd to me, particularly since he was addressed as jeff almost immediately into the story. approximately eighteen at the time of this movie, he bears a passing resemblance to sean penn. no stranger to personal and legal problems throughout his career as well as estrangement from his family, i was left wondering if his daughter drew barrymore might have ever seen this picture. i'm inclined to think not.<br /><br />on the subject of resemblances, i was also struck by the thought that the young robert sterling looked a bit like roy rogers early in his career. knowing sterling previously only from his role as george kerby in the early 1950's tv series 'topper', i thought he looked out of place in a western, but that might just be me. his character becomes emboldened by his brother's resourcefulness at creating trouble, and provides some of the edginess to this not so typical story. minor subplots abound, including the relationship rancher john gall (john litel) has with his son the sheriff (who kid wichita kills), and the troubled marriage between kathleen boyce (cathy downs) and her husband earl (who kid wichita kills). chill wills rounds out the main cast as one of tom cloud's hired hands, and figures in the somewhat predictable finale.<br /><br />what's not quite predictable is how things eventually wind up there, and for that reason, this western earns points for following a less traveled, hence not quite as formulaic a plot as a lot of good brother/bad brother westerns do. combined with the eclectic casting of the principals, it's one i'd recommend, even if you have to endure some of the jump cuts and sloppy editing that i experienced with my copy.