beforehand notification: i'm sure someone is going to accuse me of playing the race card here, but when i saw the preview for this movie, i was thinking "finally!" i have yet to see one movie about popular african-influenced dance (be it popular hip hop moves, breaking, or stepping) where the main character was a black woman. i've seen an excessive amount of movies where a non-black woman who knew nothing about hip hop comes fresh to the hood and does a mediocre job of it (breakin, breakin 2, save the last dance, step up), but the black women in the film are almost nonexistent. that always bothered me considering so much of hip hop, african-influenced dance, and breaking was with blacks and latinos in massive amounts in these particular sets and it wasn't always men who performed it, so i felt this movie has been a long time coming. however, the race does not make the film, so i also wanted it to carry a believable plot; the dancing be entertaining; and interesting to watch.<br /><br />pros: i really enjoyed this film bringing jamaican culture. i can't recall ever seeing a popular, mainstream film where all the main characters were jamaican; had believable accents; and weren't stereotypical with the beanies. the steppers, family, friends, and even the "thugs" were all really intelligent, realistic people who were trying to love, live, and survive in the neighborhood they lived in by doing something positive. even when the audience was made aware that the main character's sister chose an alternate lifestyle, it still didn't make the plot stereotypical. i was satisfied with the way it was portrayed. i loved the stepping; the romantic flirty relationship going on between two steppers; the trials that the main character's parents were going through; and how she dealt with coming back to her old neighborhood and dealing with crabs in a barrel. i respected that she was so intelligent and active at the same time, and so many other sistas in the film were handling themselves in the step world. they were all just as excellent as the fellas. i don't see that in too many movies nowadays, at least not those that would be considered black films.<br /><br />cons: i'm not quite sure why the directors or whoever put the movie together did this, but i question whether they've been to real step shows. whenever the steppers got ready to perform, some hip hop song would play in place of the steppers' hand/feet beats. at a real step show, there is zero need for music, other than to maybe entertain the crowds in between groups. and then when hip hop songs were played, sometimes the beat to the song was off to the beat of the steppers' hands and feet. it was awkward. i was more impressed with the stepping in this movie versus "stomp the yard" (another great stepping movie) because the women got to represent as fierce as the guys (in "stomp the yard," meagan good got all of a few seconds of some prissy twirl and hair flip and the (deltas?) let out a chant and a few steps and were cut immediately). even when there were very small scenes, the ladies tore it up, especially in the auto shop, and it was without all that music to drown out their physical music. i know soundtracks have to be sold, but the movie folks could've played the music in other parts of the film.<br /><br />i'm not a keyshia cole fan, so every time i saw her, all i kept thinking was "is it written in the script for her to constantly put her hand on her hip when she talks?" she looked uncomfortable on screen to me. i thought they should've used a host like free or rocsi instead. deray davis was funny as usual though. also, i groaned when i found out that the movie was supposed to be in the ghetto, like stepping couldn't possibly happen anywhere else. hollywood, as usual. however, only a couple of people were portrayed as excessively ignorant due to their neighborhood and losers, which mainstream movies tend to do.<br /><br />i would've given this movie five stars, but the music playing killed it for me. i definitely plan to buy it when it comes out and hopefully the bonus scenes will include the actual step shows without all the songs.