i was surprised at just how much i enjoyed this most thoughtfully delivered drama, which owing to its rather unimpressive 6.6 rating, i nearly missed; as i rarely give the time of day to any movie rated below 7/10. having said that, i'm so glad i gave stone angel the viewing it so very much deserved. and so should you, if you are one of the increasingly rare sensitive, soulful and thoughtful sorts of person left on this earth in living form.<br /><br />i must say that in many ways (though not all), viz. its themes, execution, style, production etc., stone angel very much reminded me of the much praised "the notebook". i am so surprised that other commentators didn't pick up on the many similarities which repeatedly struck me throughout this movie, so i can only assume that those who've written comments have yet to see the notebook. they may not share any alzheimer's theme, yet i can confidently say that if you very much enjoyed "the notebook" you will certainly find much to engage your time most fruitfully with "the stone angel". but even if you've not seen the notebook, nor read the book on which this move is based, (which, incidentally, i haven't either) you should definitely find much to hold your attention firmly - as long as your favourite genres don't include fast paced action thrillers. this is a movie for thinkers and those who like to reminisce about time's passing, how life changes as the years pass, and what might have happened in one's life as one gazes back through the years.<br /><br />this bizarrely underrated yet great movie really deserves a rating of approximately 8/10. i can only blame its current lowish rating of 6.6/10 on the 11% of idiots who gave it 1/10. after all it has attracted less than 300 votes at the time of my writing this comment. nonetheless, if those 11% who gave it the lowest ranking possible were really expecting car chases and explosions why didn't they look... for even a few seconds at the movie's premise and promotional lines? oh dear... whatever the world is coming to, don't miss this most underrated gem of a movie - but only *if* you have a brain (i.e., your top ten doesn't include transformers, fight club nor the terminator).