i saw an interview with rob schneider (who plays the lead character, marvin mange, in this film.) he said in it that he wanted to emphasize physical comedy here so much that even if you had the volume turned off you'd be laughing at this movie. obviously that must be the secret. i had the volume turned up. i was actually listening to this thing and thought it was a disaster, and completely unfunny - a major disappointment after schneider's hilarious performance in "deuce bigalow, male gigolo."<br /><br />the story is stupid: mange is a major loser who dreams of being a cop who gets filled with a bunch of animal transplants after a car accident by a mad scientist type appropriately named dr. wilder (michael caton), and as a result starts to lose control of his "animal instincts." this makes him a "supercop." he can sniff out drugs hidden in body cavities and outrun horses. of course, he also has a nasty habit of eating people's cows and trying to seduce their goats, but surely that's a small price to pay? it just didn't do anything for me. <br /><br />the cast left much to be desired. is there a more irritating actor in all of hollywood than john mcginley? here, he plays sgt. sisk, mange's commander on the police force, as a repugnantly cartoonish character (much the same as his doctor character in the inexplicably popular tv series "scrubs.") i was anxious to get a look at colleen haskell's first "serious" acting job (can anything in this movie be called "serious?") she, of course, gained her fame as a contestant on the first "survivor" and she proves here what we knew from that: she's cute as a button. what she doesn't prove here is that she has any discernible talent as an actress. and what's with ed asner as police chief wilson. i mean, how old is this guy now? he's the size of some of the cows mange tried to eat, and he seemed out of breath the whole way through. i'm surprised he made it through the filming. there's a brief cameo at the end by adam sandler (who also served as executive producer of this.)<br /><br />anyway, i chuckled twice: mange playing with his squeaky toys in the police car, and the scene schneider has with haskell and the orangutan - the orangutan has more acting talent! so, for two chuckles - 2/10.