watching the first 30 minutes of sands of oblivion gave me high hopes. it seemed i was in for a cheaper version of the mummy. the setup was promising, in the 1920's cecil b. demille makes his opus of the ten commandments. it seems in using real egyptian artifacts for the movie set they unleashed an ancient and terrible evil (don't they always?). aware of what had been unleashed demille orders the entire set buried instead of the usual practice of tearing it down. hopefully the evil will be buried with it for all time. then we switch to present day where a team is attempting to excavate the site (the movie's first mistake, but hey those period costumes are expensive and this is a sci-fi channel movie). the first sightings we get of the anubis monster are well done and it's a costume that they put some effort into and not the usual cheesy cg effect. then the body counts starts. this is were the movie went south for me. the reactions to the fact that people are dying in gruesome and strange ways gets a strangely subdued reaction. once they realize that the ancient evil has again been unleashed and is on a killing spree what do the stock issue leading man and lady do? they make the usual stop to the "guy who knows the truth but never told anyone". after getting that vital information do they share it with the comrades at the dig site? no, they stop off at a hotel for a refreshing shower and some pleasant small talk. really i'm not the most motivated person but if i knew a demon from ancient egypt was on the loose and killing everyone in sight and would be coming after me i'd put a little hustle in my step to solve the problem. after this overlong and pointless middle section they get around to destroying the anubis monster in the usual way, by racing around in dune buggies and shooting it with a rocket launcher while it's standing by a pile of phosphorous grenades. for a sci-fi movie it was above the usual crap they put out, which isn't saying much at all. what disappoints me is this could have been a lot more if someone had wrote a decent script for it.