and i repeat, please do not see this movie! this is more than a review. this is a warning. this sets the record for the worst, most effortless comedy ever made. at least with most of the recent comedies nowadays, the gags are crude and flat, but the writers and directors put in at least some sort of effort into making them funny. i never get tired of repeating one of my favorite mottos: everyone thinks they can do comedy, and only 10 percent of them are right. comedy is hard! this is not some genre any fool can play around with. i think it's atrocious that the filmmakers are comparing this piece of garbage to "kentucky fried movie." basically, these bozos are comparing their so-called comic talents to those of the brilliant jim abrahams and the zucker brothers. come on, i've seen pauly shore movies that are 10 times funnier than "the underground comedy movie." here's a sample of the comedy for those curious about seeing this movie: one sketch involves a superhero dressed like a penis named d**kman. the whole joke is that he defeats his enemies by squirting them with semen. that's it. that's the whole joke. wow. this is enough to make carrot top roll his eyes. another sketch involves a man having sex with a dead person in a porn movie. and in another sketch, there's a bag lady beauty contest, in which we're exposed to the horrible sights of bikini-clad middle-aged women with beer guts and stretch marks. plus, making fun of the homeless is more sad than funny. it's a step away from mocking the mentally handicapped. the whole movie is supposed to be a satire. i think the filmmakers forgot that a key element of satire...is truth!!! for anybody who actually enjoyed this crap, explain to me what is truthful about any of these gags! some of the sketches might've sounded funny on paper, but anybody who's taken any screen writing classes knows that if a sight gag sounds too funny on paper, it probably won't be funny on screen. if i tell someone about a big, black, muscular gay virgin, who's saving himself for the right man, he or she would probably laugh. but watching the premise played out on screen for about 10 minutes is a complete drag. i hate how whenever people criticize a low-brow comedy like this for not being funny, they're regarded as stuck-up squares. i just saw "white chicks" recently. that's another low-brow, politically incorrect comedy, but i laughed my head off. the most offensive thing about "the underground comedy movie" is it's not funny! what the writers and directors don't understand is that merely being filthy and tasteless doesn't work. there has to be more! just think of the famous scene from "there's something about mary" (ironically, enough the bozo filmmakers put the farrellys on their special thanks list). the joke about the semen wasn't just funny because it involved bodily fluids. there was a buildup. ben stiller was masturbating in the bathroom to make sure he didn't go out on a date with a "loaded gun." then he looked around to see where all the semen went after it was released. a knock is on the door, and he has to answer it. his date, mary, is at the door and that's when it's revealed that the semen is hanging off ben's ear. in this movie, there are multiple gags involving characters squirting loads of semen at people, with no buildup whatsoever. as jay leno always says, "this comedy thing's not so easy, is it?" keep that in mind, vince offer, 'cause you weren't cut out for this genre!! the only reason people might laugh at these gags is because they want to feel hip. let's face it, nowadays it's hip to laugh at anything politically incorrect. i know comedy is subjective...but this movie shouldn't be funny to anybody, except maybe the filmmakers themselves. as a side note, the movie had to have been made before michael clarke duncan's fame in movies like "armageddon" and "the green mile." there can't be any other reason why an actor of his caliber would volunteer to be part of this amateurish freak show. all the others in the cast are either non-actors, has-been actors or b-movie stars. karen black made a good impression in "five easy pieces," but i don't think she's done anything of value ever since. slash was probably drugged into being in this film. gina lee nolin is nothing without "baywatch." angelyne is the film's biggest star (keeping in mind duncan wasn't famous at the time), and there are still probably a ton of people who haven't heard of her--for good reason. usually, i'm in support of extremely low-budget flicks, but this one deserves to drift into obscurity. i hope to lord this doesn't become a cult classic! shouldn't there be a law against distributing crap like this?