anyone who visited drive-ins in the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, must have seen a film or two by american international pictures, a distributor that resembled 1980s giant cannon films. wherever movie-goers ventured, aip would be right there to supply the latest en vogue titles - in the 50s came horror movies like 'voodoo woman' and 'the undead;' in the 60s were frankie avalon-annette funicello beach comedies and biker flicks like 'the glory stompers;' and into the 70s, aip churned out grindhouse-level trash like 'cannibal girls' and 'sugar hill.'<br /><br />'dillinger,' released in 1973, is one of the more 'highbrow' aip efforts that capture the true spirit of drive-in film-making; it is one of those uneven, over-the-top flicks that satisfied the masses' thirst for entertainment, craftsmanship and common sense be damned. on the whole, 'dillinger' is typical for its era: entertaining and worth a couple of hours, but certainly not memorable. heavy on action and short on both acting and historical fact, 'dillinger' was a fair effort by screenwriter-director john milius ('magnum force') but certainly left room for improvement in his extensive career.<br /><br />the 109-minute 'dillinger' - epic for aip's scope - follows the quest of fbi midwest chief melvin purvis, played by academy award winner ben johnson. purvis was the investigator who sought revenge for four fbi agents killed in a 1933 kansas city ambush that helped gangster frank nash to escape justice. at large were the men who supposedly plotted that breakout, including expert bankrobber john dillinger (warren oates), pretty boy floyd (steve kanaly), and psychopath baby face nelson (richard dreyfuss). dillinger eventually joined forces with floyd and nelson, taking along homer van meter (harry dean stanton) and harry pierpont (geoffrey lewis). he also hooked up with billie frechette (michelle phillips), a prostitute of french and indian extraction. while taking place over several months in 1933-4, 'dillinger' is basically a chase film, with purvis's entourage looking to run down and kill off the men wanted by j. edgar hoover.<br /><br />'dillinger' has a documentary feel, listing dates and places while johnson supplies loose narrative as purvis. milius keeps an honest depression look, using authentic fashion, cars, weapons, and buildings; he also sprinkles around black-and-white photography and stock footage of gangster shootouts. the film is never boring, moving at a quick, if haphazard, pace. the action scenes are dillinger's strongpoint, edited competently by fred feitshans jr in his last professional effort. thousands of blank ammunition rounds must have been used to make this film, not to mention pounds of explosives. this film is certainly not for the squeamish, with people getting shot and dropping dead all over the place. the violence, while gratuitous, brings some understanding of the mayhem that organized crime dumped on american life.<br /><br />this film never transcends its exploitation status, however, because the needed writing just isn't there. john milius, somewhat overrated as a filmmaker, places way too much emphasis on action. the action scenes (mostly blood-filled shootouts) are impressive and comparable with any major crime film of its era, including 1967's 'bonnie and clyde.' but we simply don't get to know much about dillinger and his gang members as people; the vital relationship that develops between dillinger and frechette is barely touched upon, with the pair meeting in a bar during one scene and cavorting as lovers just ten minutes afterward. melvin purvis also seems to wander in and out of the storyline, becoming a prominent figure only when milius needs to keep the film from unraveling. all too often, the film takes on a shoot-'em-up persona when its characters could have been explored in detail.<br /><br />aside from this, the picture's main crime is ignorance of historical fact. while many say that 'dillinger' is just a film, it's films such as this one that create fables and make them permanent. those with knowledge of gangster history will point out that john dillinger was not the last of his ring to die, as milius's screenplay and the film's documentary style encourage us to believe. in fact, dillinger died before baby face nelson and homer van meter; he also was said not to be carrying a gun on the night of his death, nor did he have billie frechette in tow. while these inaccuracies might make for high drama, there is no reason why milius couldn't have stayed with the facts and written a great story around them.<br /><br />warren oates's performance as dillinger is quite good, although he sometimes looks unconvincing. oates is humorous and nicely portrays how dillinger became consumed by his larger-than-life image in the american press; however, we never really feel the menace he invoked in his lifetime. ben johnson gives some life to purvis, suave but rather flat. michelle phillips brings emotion to the billie frechette character and it's really too bad that milius's screenplay didn't flesh out her relationship with dillinger. we never learn what drew her to a cold-blooded killer, other than the stereotype of an easy-going girl who is attracted to men of danger. the supporting roles with kanaly, dreyfuss, stanton, lewis, and a briefly-appearing cloris leachman, are acceptable for such talent.<br /><br />as a piece of 1970s exploitation, 'dillinger' appears doomed to retail bargain bins, which is exactly where i picked up mgm's dvd release for $4.99. the film is nicely presented in widescreen (a must for drive-in flicks) with subtitles in french and spanish. dillinger's theatrical trailer is supplied as a lone extra. largely forgotten except by gangster movie fans and drive-in enthusiasts, the film doesn't really call for much else in way of supplementary material. for fans of the genre, it's certainly worth checking out.<br /><br />** out of 4<br /><br />roving reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr