while the overall idea of escape from atlantis was intriguing, i found the film to be far less than what i had hoped for upon reading the plot summery. perhaps i am too much of a child in the technological age: the movie was made, as it is now 2002, an official five years ago --after viewing fantasy epics such as lord of the rings, and science fiction feats like star wars, as a whole it could not compare to other movies of similar line such as dinotopia or homer's the odyssey.<br /><br />my beef, basically, is that i couldn't relate --i am just about the same age of the children (a young adult), and have no trouble putting myself in the place of a middle-aged man if that is the character available. but the picture did not take me to a different mental plain of existence. i didn't find myself saying 'ack! i would have done the same thing!'. it did not open the doors to my imagination. even without comparing it to high-budget films or other tv movies, standing alone, certain aspects of the feature i found to be cliche: the character development in the children occurred too rapidly for my liking, seeing too much of the stereotypical selfish-teenager-bitter-after-divorce image changing into the we're-a-big-happy-family-let's-never-separate-again feel that can ultimately make or break a picture in the long run. even the characters themselves could have undergone improvement: a typical set of one or the other stereotypes. there was the ever-present selfish beauty looking to be rebellious, accompanied by mr. perfect image of combining athletics, good looks and intelligence yet a brooding attitude, and lastly the smart-aleck little brother we find to be so common these days. while i know the personalities pushed the story along, i think that adding more individuality as far as nuances and more unique differences would have made it a more enjoyable --and believable (as far as character)-- movie.<br /><br />i do have to raise my glass to the costume and set design --that made it worth finishing to the end for me. don't get me wrong: all movies are worth seeing for yourself, and the opinion of one could never account for the opinion of many, but i think that with a little more depth to the script, and a little more (i cannot believe i am saying this) realness i dare say escape from atlantis could have been magical.