i don't know why, but i thought i've seen this movie before. maybe it was the name, maybe it was the way poster looked, i don't know. anyway, it was quite promising in the beginning. and even throughout the whole feature there were some bright moments. maybe its because i'm not a huge fan of the horrors, and i don't watch them a lot, but this one actually looked fresh sometimes. but the rest of it is not so good. laughable at times. the movie is slow paced, sometimes you will get so bored you'd forget what was the story about. characters are not great either. all of them. the butcher is ok, seems creepy and crazy enough. although i didn't get what were those weird looking things on his chest (that whole scene just looked fake and kind of out-of-the-blue), and why he was collecting those in jars at home? the main lead is plain. his character is really hard to believe in, and very undeveloped. but i guess thats scenarists fault. like why he cried when he was taking pictures of his girlfriend? side cast is bad too. but the main thing i hated in this movie was the girl. my god, when will women in horror movies have any brains? its ridiculous. the girl finds out that a maniac took her boyfriends camera, tries going to police, that fails, and then she thinks of the best idea ever. why don't we just go and take it! i know where the maniac lives! yup! thats swell! and then look for the camera in the bathroom! why not? and then walk in the room, see a bag that was not there before, and just have a look inside. maybe camera is there? not there. but loads of interesting stuff. shiny. mmmm. to realize that bag means that the butcher came back is too hard for her tiny tiny brain. then of course the never ending "falling while running away" trick, that really made it look bad. then, to put the final nail into the character, in the end of the movie, she walks into the wagon full with dead bodies hanging feet up, screams "noooo" like she just ripped her gucci bag, and walks further into the wagon... jeez. come on. no one else thinks its just, well, stupid? just awful. if her character wasn't so bad, maybe the movie would get another star or two from me. and i would even forgive mmt characters that can take a hit in the head with a steel hammer (that dude in the train who the conductor killed), butcher vests that can protect from bullets, weird and cheap looking monsters in the end (i didn't read clive barkers novel, so i have no idea where those monsters came from), the fact that no one cared that hundreds (judging on the skeletons in the dungeon) disappeared in the city, and main character that didn't bleed to death when he got his tongue ripped out (he barely noticed it i guess). oh, and the predictable ending. damn, i knew the ending half way in, its just disappointing. the only reason i'm still giving some credit to the makers, is that the movie in general looks better than most of the horrors i've watched past few months. visual style is nice, some shots were really nice and good cgi that made the killings look really brutal. (although blood didn't look real at all) i guess some people will enjoy it, some, like me, will watch it if there is nothing else to watch, some will absolutely hate it.