even if this film was allegedly a joke in response to critics it's still an awful film. if one is going to commit to that sort of thing at least make it a good joke.....first off, jeroen krabb'e is i guess the poor man's gerard depardieu.....naturally i hate gerard depardieu even though he was very funny in the 'iron mask' three musketeer one. otherwise to me he is box office poison and jeroen krabb'e is worse than that. the poor man's box office poison....really that is not being fair to the economically disenfranchised. if the '4th man' is supposed to be some sort of critique of the bourgeoisie....what am i saying? it isn't. let's just say hypothetically, if it was supposed to be, it wasn't sharp enough. satire is a tricky thing....if it isn't sharp enough the viewer becomes the butt of the joke instead......i think that is what happened. the story just ends up as a bunch of miserable disgusting characters doing nothing that anyone would care about and not in an interesting way either.....(for a more interesting and worthwhile application see any luis bunuel film....very sharp satire)<br /><br />[potential spoiler alert]<br /><br />really, the blow job in the cemetery that jeroen krabb'e's character works so so hard to attain.... do you even care? is it funny? since mr. voerhoven is supposed to be a good film maker i will give him the benefit of the doubt and assume it was some misanthropic joke that got out of control.....though i'm guessing he didn't cast jeroen krabb'e because he's the worst actor and every character he's played has been a pretentious bourgeois ass.... except he's incompetent at it. so it becomes like a weird caricature. do you think mr. voerhoven did that on purpose? and jeroen krabb'e is the butt of the joke as well? i just don't see it...... so you understand the dilemma i'm faced with here right? it is the worst film ever because he's supposed to be a good director. so there is some kind of dupery involved. i knew 'patch adams' was horrible without even seeing it. do not be duped by 'the 4th man"s deceptively alluring packaging or mr. voerhoven's reputation as a good director etc. etc.