this sorry excuse for a film reminded me a great deal of what i heard about "gigli", that ben and jen flop earlier this summer. "the order" was clearly edited to such an unconscionable degree that the scenes, rather than forming a cohesive and provoking film, appeared to be a collection of disconnected sequences that did little to forward any semblance of a unified plot. now, i'm a heath ledger fan ("10 things i hate about you", "a knight's tale" and particularly his supporting role in "monster's ball"), but my man needs to find himself a better agent. keep accepting scripts like "the order" and "four feathers" and he's going to be on the fast track to movie oblivion.<br /><br />here are the problems i had with the film. firstly, the director tried to make up for the inadequacies of his essential plot by introducing two other plot lines that seemingly had little if anything to do with, well, much of anything. plot skeins involving the american trying to take over the vatican and the dark pope, while mildly interesting, did nothing to reveal to the viewer anything about the main characters. the attempts to tie these threads together were pathetic at best. secondly, please don't insult the intelligence of the viewer by inserting into the film scenes that are clearly obligatory. we had manufactured angst, manufactured love and most idiotically manufactured sex that seemed like a page right out of "matrix reloaded" with skull-numbing techno music. rather than developing character, these elements seemed like the cheap devices they clearly were, a half-hearted attempt at putting popcorn-chewing adolescents in the seats. thirdly, and most importantly, this movie seemed to ha ve an intriguing concept. we have scandal, we have religion and we have supernatural forces at play. why then do we learn almost nothing about anyone's background? we learn a little about alex, but even he gives up the passion of the priesthood to sleep with a woman after two days, a woman who tried to kill him during an exorcism at some point in the past. and alex is the most developed, if you can call it that, character in the entire film.<br /><br />as the cliche goes nowadays, if you're going to see one movie this year, make sure it's not this one. there's about ten interesting minutes out of the intolerable 101 minute affair. the only thing that saved me was going with a girl who i'm rather fond of.<br /><br />1 out of 10. i'm disappointed. file this one firmly under -had potential but blew it on over editing and bad directing-. heath my man, go back to monster's ball-like cameos. they really suit you.