i'm kinda torn on dark angel. the film appears to be a "loving" tribute to the greatest pin-up to ever live - but there is so little actual "content" that the film itself is virtually pointless. i can't really see what the motivation or "point" of this film is - as there is very little biographical information provided in the narrative - so those who don't know much about bettie aren't gonna know much more after watching dark angel either...<br /><br />the film basically chronicles the last few years of bettie's career in bondage modeling. almost the entire film is comprised of "re-enactments" of some of bettie's more "famous" photo-shoots and loops. these re-enactments take up literally 75% of the films run-time, and give virtually no insight into bettie as a person. the film touches briefly on her short-lived legitimate acting pursuits, and her subsequent decision to leave the "business" and become religious - but all of this is pretty much glossed-over in favor of showing long and drawn-out re-enactment scenes...<br /><br />dark angel isn't a horrible film - there's just no substance to it. the other problem is that the actress that plays bettie only really resembles her in farther away shots - up-close it's a no-go. the other thing that irritated me, is that although bettie did several topless modeling shoots - the only nudity in the film was a short segment shot in a zoo during the end credits. the film itself is obviously extremely low-budget, but does what it can set and costume-wise within it's limitations - so no gripes from me there. the acting is pretty wooden and unmemorable from everyone involved. in fact - the most memorable thing about the whole film for me, was noticing during the end credits that the actor who played irving klaw's real name is dukey flyswatter. no joke - check the cast list. can't say that i recommend this one too highly unless you are a true bettiefile completist and must own anything relating to her. and if you are that bad off - then you need to seek treatment anyway...4/10