when robot hordes start attacking major cities, who will stop the madman behind the attacks? sky captain!!! jude law plays joe sullivan, the ace of the skyways, tackling insurmountable odds along with his pesky reporter ex-girlfriend polly perkins (gwyneth paltrow) and former flight partner, captain franky cook (angelina jolie).<br /><br />sky captain and the world of tomorrow may look and feel like an exciting movie but it really is quite dull and underwhelming. the film's running time is 106 minutes yet it feels so much longer because there is no substance in this movie. the visuals were great and the film did a nice job on that. however, there is nothing to support these wonderful visuals. the film lacks a story and interesting characters making the while thing quite dull and unnecessary. i blame director and writer kerry conran. he focuses too much on the visuals and spent little time on the actual story. the movie is like a girl with no personality, after awhile it kind of gets bland and tiring. sky captain represents a beautiful girl with no personality. it's simply just another case of style over substance.<br /><br />the acting is surprisingly average and that's not really their fault since they had very little to work with. the main reason i watched this movie is because of angelina jolie. however, the advertising is quite misleading and she is only in the film for about 30 minutes. her performance is surprisingly bland as well. jude law gives an okay performance though you would expect a lot more from him. gwyneth paltrow was just average, nothing special at all. ling bai's performance was the only one i really liked. she gives a pretty good performance as the mysterious woman and she was the only interesting character in the entire film.<br /><br />the movie is not a complete bust though. there were some "wow" and exciting scenes. there just weren't enough of them. the film just doesn't have that hook to really make it memorable. it was actually quite bland and it wasn't very engaging at all. it's too bad the film wasn't very good since it had such a promising premise. in the end, sky captain is surprisingly below average and not really worth watching. rating 4/10