cheap, mediocre sequel to the successful "the mummy's hand" has presumably dead evil professor andoheb(george zucco)preparing his predecessor mehemet bey(turhan bey)for the quest of revenge overseas to america using mummy kharis(lon chaney, jr who has no reason being in the disguise..any stunt man could do the same credible work lumbering around and choking victims)in the goal of killing the surviving members of the banning family whose patriarch stephen(dick foran)and assistant babe hanson(wallace ford)retrieved the mummified corpse of princess ananka from her tomb in egypt..andoheb considers this an outlandish act of desecration and wants the family to suffer for doing such an awful deed towards an ancient egyptian custom. bey and the mummy kharis find a nice hideaway in a cemetery where the high priest of karnak can work as a caretaker in disguise. every full moon, bey will feed kharis a form of liquid derived of several tana leaves which will keep him not only alive but subservient to his master's wishes. bey commands kharis to kill stephen and his sister jane(mary gordon), while also biding time for babe to return so that he will become victim # 3. dr. john banning(john hubbard)plans to wed isobel(elyse knox), but doesn't know that bey secretly covets his fianc'e making plans to kidnap her with kharis' help. john's life is in danger because of his father..he's also the last remaining member of the banning line. if bey has isobel, there's no chance of any more bannings being born. the police must find kharis and the one responsible for his carnage..bey.<br /><br />this film is a continuation from hand set years later as members of that film, foran, ford & zucco all appear in "aging" make-up providing wrinkles showing the gaps in time as andoheb has been preparing for the deaths of the bannings. the cornball romance of john and isobel seems merely in this plot so that bey will screw up endangering his perfect plan which was being carried out successfully before he loused it up. and, bey merely sees her frolicking with john on the grass..the whole "love-at-first-sight" rubbish really didn't wash for me. plus you have the mummy being able to kill people with one arm..is any mummy really that powerful? this film also uses a ton of footage from the previous film to save budget on this sequel to it. there really isn't that much story here and yes, typical of universal monster pictures, even in america a mob of people will light..ho hum..torches going after kharis. you know how it'll end..john and the super-powerful kharis will square off in some huge mansion with fire burning all around them with the evil one being engulfed in flame.