an allegation of aggravated sexual assault along with some other unpleasant peccadilloes, including improper use of a broom, are made against half a dozen or so of the most popular high-school jocks in glen ridge, new jersey, by a "mildly retarded" student (heather matarazzo). the investigation and building of the case are handed over to the da's office, where ally sheedy and eric stoltz are put in charge.<br /><br />rumors about the case spread through glen ridge, an upper-middle-class suburb where the jocks are adored by everyone in the community. (one of their fathers is a police lieutenant.) nobody believes matarazzo. "our boys would never take a slut like that down to the basement, rape her, and subject her to such sexual humiliation." the question is whether sheedy and stoltz will ever be able to shape a sufficiently cogent case that they can bring the jocks to trial. matarazzo is not an ideal plaintiff. she's desperate for love and friendship, and that makes it easy for faux friends to mislead her into making false statements. a slimy reporter says, "you can trust me," but it turns out the reporter can't be trusted at all. another student, a very popular girl in school, pulls a linda tripp on matarazzo, pretending to be her bosom buddy but all the while asking her leading questions about the incident -- and taping the results! as a consequence, watching this story unfold is like being on a roller coaster. at first it looks like a good case for sheedy and stoltz. but then, oops, the community organizes against the law. then it looks good again. but then the reporter interferes. then that obstacle is no sooner overcome, than linda tripp pokes her big nose into the investigation and makes public the tapes that seem to indicate matarazzo was lying. (well, actually, she was lying -- but she was lying to her interrogator in order to please her.) then that's overcome, but matarazzo objects to taking the stand because she doesn't want to be characterized as "retarded." eric stoltz is fine in the part of the prosecutor. i say that for the simple reason that he and i lived in pago pago around the same time. (i hope he wasn't the kid i had that altercation with at the bar of the seaside club. if he was, i take back my compliment.) ally sheedy is a strange actress and hard to characterize. she did a marvelous self-restrained job in "fine art" but i didn't sense any particular effort being put into this role, which was rather formulaic anyway. i mean, neither she nor stoltz nor anyone else could give a bravura performance in what's essentially a comic book story.<br /><br />the producers and director had the good sense to choose heather matarazzo for the role of victim. the very worst thing they could have done is cast an ethereally lovely, neotenous blond. instead, matarazzo, without being at all ugly, looks rather plain and this ordinary quality is complemented by her grooming and make up. nor have the writers turned her wistful and gentle. she has a temper and is sometimes irritating to listen to, which is all for the good.<br /><br />matarazzo's character is the best drawn in the film. the jocks are stereotypes. pure evil. they think themselves above the law, barge in on some nice girl's party in east orange, trash the place during a party far worse than "la dolce vita's" climactic orgy, and leave without explanation or apology. they deserve to get it in the neck -- and they do.<br /><br />i referred to this as a comic book story and that's pretty much what it is. it challenges none of our prejudices. it reaffirms out belief that the world can be divided into good and evil. and we don't have a moment's doubt about who's who. what i'm waiting for -- not really, that's just rhetorical -- is a movie almost exactly like this one and a dozen others, but in which the victim is lying in order to get her name and photo in the papers and garner all those sympathy chips from right-thinking folk like the rest of us.<br /><br />the film is based on a true story, as are so many others we've all seen, and even more fictional features. (eg., "the accused".) some are good, some are strictly routine. okay. fair enough. now when do we get to see a film about the tawana brawley case, in which the teen-aged girl disappeared on a whim for a few days, then had her friends strip her, tie her up, and smear her with dirt, so she could claim she'd been abducted and raped by the police? now that would be a challenge in a way this one simply is not.