there are two groups of people...those who love every fellini movie they see and normal people. while i will admit that i have really enjoyed some of his films, i can also honestly say that i can't stand some of them. my opinion, by the way, is not just some knee-jerk reaction--i have seen most of fellini's films and have also seen many films by the world's most famous directors. with this in mind, i feel that the most overrated and annoying directors can be both godard and fellini. they both have delighted in the bizarre and often unwatchable and yet have received gobs of accolades from reviewers and the "intelligensia", while the average person would never sit through some of their films. heck, even a person who loves international cinema would generally be left out in the cold when seeing some of these films. so, since only a small clique actually watches their films and they are already predisposed to seeing the directors as geniuses, it's not surprising that their films are so often praised--it's like a cult! if you don't believe me, think about many of godard's films such as first name carmen or alphaville,...or what about fellini satyricon or juliet of the spirits? these films abound with boredom, weirdness and incomprehensibility. now i am not saying a film can't be weird (after all i love happiness of the katakuris and shaolin soccer), but it must be watchable!<br /><br />now on to this movie. somehow, fellini has managed to make a story about a sexually compulsive man completely boring and unsexy. this is no small task--it took a lot of work to make this so unwatchable. instead of cheap sexual thrills, the sex acts are choreographed in a silly and annoying way while the character of casanova is buried under so much makeup and prosthetics that donald sutherland looks like a ghoul. i know some of this must have been fellini's intention, but many viewers will be left completely bored by this sterile performance--especially since sutherland's lines are all poorly dubbed into italian and so he neither looks nor sounds like himself! unfortunately, when the movie is not wrapped up in these boring sexual escapades, there really isn't anything else to watch.<br /><br />an interesting note about the first sexual conquest shown in this dull movie is that the actress looks amazingly like a younger version of fellini's wife, giulietta masina. considering that in addition to this, that in previous decades fellini had masina play characters such as a prostitute and a horribly abused woman, it seems like he may have truly hated his wife and was having this acted out on screen. i read a bit about them and their tempestuous relationship and it seems to bear this out as well. this is about the only aspect of this turgid film that i found at all interesting. don't say i didn't warn you!