i'll probably get a lot of flack for hating this movie- guess i didn't approach it with the proper dewy-eyed nostalgia of the generation before me. but suffice it to say- st elmo's fire was pretty crap-freaking- tastic, even as far as brat pack films go.<br /><br />here is yet another lovely example of the smug, self-indulgent neurosis that is everything 80s (rent, anyone?) the plot is virtually non- existent and the philosophies are kitchy at best, poorly delivered the rest of the time. the complete lack of anything resembling sympathetic characters doesn't help the situation. there really was no growth, no forward movement at all. even the climactic suicide scene was effectually neutered by once again refusing to let death or anything resembling reality or adult life enter in. <br /><br />each cookie cutter figure simply goes about making you hate them in the blandest, most predictable way possible. the stalker is a creep for no discernible reason other than he is a stalker and andie macdowell is gorgeous. the jackass does everything in his power to constantly remind you he is, well, a jackass. the gorgeous slut hides really soulful, deep pain with a wild lifestyle. the poet moods and mopes around for a full 3/4 of the film until he can reveal (!) he actually is full of teddy bears and sunshine and rainbows. the virgin finally becomes a whole, happy human being after getting every virgin's desire of one hot roll in the sack with a jackass before he ditches her to really change (for real this time). the cheating bastard cheats until it is time for him to get caught. and finally the feminist go around dousing holy water on any soul that utters "commitment".<br /><br />which brings me to my final beef- what bond of super-cement was holding these people together as friends? i can't imagine being with just one of them- now think of the vortex created by all that narcissism centered in one bar. and they were all so terrible to each other- heads in toilets, near rape, and sleeping around with everrrryone. the cherry was after two bffs act like total baboons after screwing the feminist, she's like, "umm, actually i don't want to be with either of you anymore. let's be friends! and we can hang out in a totally unawkward way every day knowing that i may hook up with one or the other at any given point, but neither of you are satisfying enough for commitment (not that word!)." and they all smile as if to say, "golly gee, i never thought of that! what a great idea!"<br /><br />only it's not. kinda in the way that watching this movie is not.