sam (thomas cavanagh) and gray (heather graham) are devoted siblings who share an apartment and a love of many things -- ballroom dancing, 1940s movie musicals and, much to their surprise, an attractive woman named charlie (bridget moynahan). historically heterosexual, gray is confused by her new feelings.<br /><br />gray matters proves to be one of the blandest films i have ever seen. it's dull, predictable, unfunny, poorly acted and poorly written. nothing about it felt real and everything was very cheesy. also, this isn't really a romantic comedy with a special twist but more of a "coming out" movie. sue kramer tried to make the first half cute with the romantic stuff and the second half serious with the actual acceptance and coming out part. unfortunately, she failed miserably. the first half was largely unfunny and only heather graham was able to hold it up a little. then, the film took an awkward tone and got all serious. the serious scenes were handled poorly and all of the emotions just felt phony.<br /><br />i guess i would have enjoyed the film a little more if the relationships between the characters felt more authentic. the brother and sister relationship was very weak and they didn't really appear to be that close. their relationship just didn't feel very natural. also, the relationship between tom and bridget felt very unnatural. if two people are going to get married after only knowing each other for less than a week, then you would expect to see a little more excitement but the characters talked about getting married in vegas in the same manner of asking a waiter what the specials are. there was a lack of excitement in the film and it was hard to get involved with the movie with such unmotivated characters.<br /><br />the acting was mostly weak which was a bit surprising given the decent cast. heather graham gave the only good performance in the movie. she was funny and had a few charming scenes but it's too bad that all of her co-stars were complete duds. bridget moynahan was very weak and her performance ringed false on every level. also, it seemed like she was reading her lines. thomas cavanagh was pretty wooden and he showed nearly no emotion. the chemistry between thomas and heather was non existent and that damaged the film because their relationship felt phony. i can usually rely on molly shannon to be funny in a supporting role but here she was just annoying. sissy spacek had about two scenes and she was annoying in both of them. finally, alan cumming just had an embarrassing character and his performance wasn't very good. overall, gray matters is a lame film and it isn't worth watching. rating 3/10