i had to walk out on this film fifteen minutes from the end... having passed through the cringe stage and into pure boredom. what really horrifies me, i mean truly disturbs me, is that there are people referring to this aimless drivel as 'delightful' or a 'must see.' i would feel deep pity for those so afflicted were it not for the distinct impression that most of the positive comments about this shallow and humourless travesty were written by industry plants.<br /><br />the truth is this is a lame film that does nothing to entertain nor enlighten. it is decidedly unfunny, poorly scripted and has all the pace and energy of cold, canned rice pudding. to be kind to ms kramer, the best one can say is it was a missed opportunity, for having read the synopsis before i watched it, i had expected something more challenging. the possible misinterpretations of a close brother and sister co-dependence, the unexpected awakening of 'sisterly' sexuality, and the comic potential in such sibling rivalry (for the affections of the same girl) were all obvious subjects for refreshing comedic exploration, yet which at every turn the movie frustratingly shies away from.<br /><br />instead, the audience is subjected to a meandering series of uninspired and insipidly drawn situations, with clich'ed characterisations and dull performances from a cast struggling for belief and obviously in need of much tighter direction. the lack of directorial control seems astounding; on the one hand, moynahan, cavanagh and spacek all give very pedestrian performances, while heather graham and molly shannon - the latter in particular - veer towards embarrassing over-compensation at times. one could lay the blame for this on the director - maybe sue kramer hopes that if her actors over-act, they will force a bigger laugh from the audience. but then again, the cast is a veteran one; one would expect them to do better.<br /><br />sue kramer really needs to think carefully what kind of movies she wants to make, and for whom. given the possible issues gray matters alludes to, and given her inability or unwillingness to fully explore them in the context of a comedy, perhaps she should consider writing dramas instead. i know it is never easy to make films about women and women's issues, especially when one hopes to reach a wider audience than women alone, but whatever direction she takes, inconsequential and flimsy characters like gray are not going to cut mustard.