this film can't make up its mind whether its message is "humans are evil and bad and animals are sweet and blameless" or "don't ever go in the water again." a fisherman (nolan) is out to nab a killer whale, a very bad thing, but when he accidentally (accidentally mark you) hits a pregnant cow instead of her mate, the cow -- and i use the word in all senses -- who is obviously a sick psycho-bitch and the canonical villain of the piece -- throws herself against the propellers trying to chew herself to bits in the most distressing and hideous not to mention ineffectual method of killing herself. (i doubt it was her first.) when her unborn fetus aborts from her hideous self-inflicted wounds, her mate goes mental with revenge and swears to hurt, kill and mutilate every human who even so much as talks to nolan. obviously as among humans, total psychos date other total psychos.<br /><br />the film reeks of half-thought out anti-human message, "the poor poor whale!! the evil men must suffer and die!" and yet, it does not succeed in demonizing nolan at all. it's true that when he set out his motives were selfish and cruel, but at the first squeal of the first whale he grows a heart and, as the film progresses, he grows more and more compassionate to the whale's pain until it seems he will walk out on the ice and give himself to the whale, just to make it feel a little better.<br /><br />the films final journey, in which nolan follows the whale on a bizarre journey to the north, reminds me of melville's eerie man-whale connection, and for a moment hinted at a truly interesting conclusion, where these two husbands might connect, understand even respect each other in their own grief, for nolan lost his wife and unborn child also to an accident. it's clear nolan respects the whale and feels for its loss. however, it never goes there. the whale-character has no compassion or respect for anyone.<br /><br />the final scene loses this focus and becomes jaws-like where the sea-monster finally kills everybody and nolan and no-doubt through an oversight, fails to chomp up the whale-hugger (tho he made a good snap for her head a little earlier.) i love animals, and i detest whaling, and what is more i love orca whales, but if this film's goal was to make me feel that the whale was the victim and that people are evil and detestable it completely failed. nolan shows compassion and growth, and feels for others, and all the whale thinks about is killing and maiming.<br /><br />the only message one can walk away with is "if you see an orca whale, ever, anywhere, run the other way cause if you step on his fin the wrong way, he will hunt you to the ends of the earth destroying everything around you."