i watched this film on the hallmark channel recently. in my opinion, the film started out decent enough, but eventually got sour.<br /><br />the story: a u.s. soldier in afghanistan receives one of the christmas cards that a woman back in the u.s. has sent out to troops for christmas. he becomes so inspired by the christmas card that he feels it has given him a ray of hope and happiness in his life, a motivation to continue on. when he is given leave, he goes to the very town that the woman lives in. he comes across and spunky young woman and eventually finds out that she is the one that sent the christmas card. he meets the family and after saving her dad (a vietnam war veteran) from getting hit by a car whilst crossing the street, the family decides to take him in for a while. we learn that he doesn't have a family back home. the soldier agrees to help out the family during the christmas season by working with them at their logging company. the family comes to love him and vice-versa. the soldier also becomes in love with the family's daughter - the woman that sent the christmas card. there's only one problem. she already has a serious relationship with a man that she's in love with. it's also a long distance relationship. the boyfriend is very different from the soldier. he prefers wine and trips to france over hard labor and the great outdoors. the woman prefers the latter. throughout the rest of the film, there is a "love triangle" as the woman's boyfriend is back in town visiting her for the season. everyone in the family seems to want the daughter to be with the soldier and the mom basically wants what's best for her daughter. **(spoiler alert)** the woman comes to like the soldier more and more, as they have a lot in common. they happen to spend a lot of time together. she gradually becomes attracted to his persona. then one day he kisses her and and she kisses him back. now she's so confused! she's in love with her boyfriend and wants to marry him someday, but she's become so fond of the soldier. soon enough, the boyfriend (who doesn't know about the kiss, but is very protective of the woman and thinks the soldier has been trying to move in on her) decides to propose to the woman and she accepts. his plans for their marriage, however, are not plans that she wants. she wants to be at home, have kids and be close to her family. he wants to travel the world, go to exotic places and if they have kids he wants to take them along. this doesn't sound too thrilling for the woman. however, the soldier feels bad about what he's done and doesn't want to make things worse. so, he decides to leave town, despite the dad's urging him to stay and be with his daughter. it all comes to a head when, at the christmas eve service with church, we find out that the soldier hasn't left yet. the boyfriend and the woman speak to each other outside and he, broken-hearted, basically decides to let her go and breaks up with her. the film ends with the woman and the soldier getting together.<br /><br />things i like: i like the soldier throughout much of the film. he's basically nice and polite, with a strong sense of doing good for others; there are moments in which the family is going with church and participating in charitable causes; the family hold hands and pray during an evening meal at the table; the dad and mom have a long-lasting and evidently healthy marriage; the soldier tries to do the right thing in a situation after he did something very wrong <br /><br />things i don't like: there is a very typical "love triangle" story in this film; the soldier turns sour as he slowly and subtly moves in on the woman and then eventually kisses her when she already has a boyfriend; most of the family practically applauds this behavior - the family goes with church and participates in services, yet this is how they act; there is some bad language <br /><br />conclusion: i became disappointed as the film ran on, and it got worse and worse. i ended up fast forwarding the very end of the film because i had enough. so, the film started out decent with some few gem moments, but ended up ruining itself. therefore, i don't recommend this film to anyone.