the night evelyn came out of the grave (emilio miraglia - italy 1971).<br /><br />i only watched this delirious piece of euro-tosh in the way of alpha video's dreadful dvd-release (looks like an extremely bad video-transfer), but from what i saw, not nearly interesting enough to purchase no shame's recent dvd-release. considering their excellent track record, it will undoubtedly be a major improvement over all previous releases. and don't pay attention to the ridiculous cover shown here, it's not taken from this film (some girl holding the head of a jim carrey look-a-like).<br /><br />spaghetti western star anthony steffen sports a hip hairdo and assumes the role of lord alan cunningham, a man haunted by the memory of his dead wife evelyn. this leads to a nervous breakdown which has him being retained in a psychiatric clinic. once released, cunningham channels this trauma by taking redheaded prostitutes to his countryside castle, subjecting them to vicious acts of torture. his doctor and friend, richard timberlane (what do you mean, italian horror names sound "made up?"), advises him to forget the past and remarry but cunningham is obsessed with evelyn and even organizes a s'eance at the castle. eventually, after killing some more girls, he meets gladys, another redhead, and marries her almost immediately, but the arrival of his new wife spawns a series of sinister events. bloodthirsty creatures strike at sir alan's family, killing them off one by one. becoming more distraught, cunningham visits evelyn's tomb and discovers it to be empty. soon, a number of "outsiders" begin to suspect something fishy is going on in the castle and lord cunningham's treatment might not have been that successful after all.<br /><br />director emilio miraglia tries to blend gothic horror with giallo conventions with limited success. as usual, not the slightest effort was made to convince audiences the film is set in england. the cars drive on the right side of the road, everyone looks very mediterranean and the castle (and the rest of the architecture) is patently italian. this is common practice in italian horror, but sometimes they just take this a little too far. the bad print made this even slightly bearable, since it's so dark, you couldn't see much of the surroundings anyway. but, then again, this is the kind of film where anything can happen in the name of exploitation and depicting reality isn't really the issue. a large part consists of sado-masochistic torture scenes in the castle torture chamber, but most of the time, anthony steffen hams his way through this and shows some horrible over-acting. i guess it all depends on your state of mind and this can be a fun piece of nonsense if you're in the right mood. i just couldn't take it, at least not with the print i watched. a pleasant score though by bruno nicolai which combines easy-listening tunes with some psychedelic rock numbers.<br /><br />camera obscura --- 4/10