lord alan cunningham(antonio de teff`e)is a nutjob{seen early on trying to escape an insane asylum}, with this castle slowly succumbing to ruin, likes to kill various hookers who resemble his deceased wife evelyn, a woman who betrayed him for another man, with those red locks. this nutcase is quite wealthy and his bachelor status can be quite alluring. he, however, is overrun by his obsession with his late wife's memory(specifically her adultery..he saw her naked with the lover). while the memory of evelyn is almost devouring his whole existence, alan tries his best to find true love and believes he has with gladys(marina malfatti, who spends most of the film naked..that's probably her lone attribute since she isn't a very good actress), who agrees to marry him after a very short courtship which should probably throw up flags right away{there's a key moment of dialogue where she knows exactly to the very amount what he is worth}.<br /><br />the only real person alan can confide in is his doctor from the hospital, dr. richard timberlane(giacomo rossi-stuart). there are other key characters in this film that revolve around alan. alan's cousin, george(rod murdock), seems to be quite a good friend who often supplies him victims..i mean dates, while holding onto hope of getting his lord's estate some day. albert(roberto maldera), evelyn's brother, is a witness to alan's slaughter and, instead of turning him into the police, squeezes him for cash. aunt agatha(joan c davis), wheelchair bound, lives at the castle estate and is often seen snooping around behind cracked doors. we later find that she is having a love affair with albert.<br /><br />all that is described above services the rest of the story which shows what appears to be the ghost of evelyn haunting alan, someone is killing off members of the cast family that revolve around alan, and the body of evelyn is indeed missing.<br /><br />the ultimate question is who is committing the crimes after alan and gladys are married, where is evelyn's body, and will alan go over the edge? i have to be honest and say i just didn't really care much for this film. it's badly uneven and the pacing is all over the place. it looks great on the new dvd and the "rising from the grave sequence" is cool, but what really hurts the film in my mind is that the entire cast is unlikable. you really have a hard time caring for alan because he is a psychotic who is skating on thin ice in regards to holding his sanity. he can be quite volatile. who commits the crime really isn't that great a surprise for after several key characters are murdered off, there aren't but a choice few who could be doing it. what happens to alan doesn't really make your throat gulp because you can make the argument he's just getting what he deserves. those behind the whole scheme of the film in regards to alan, as i pointed out before, aren't that shocking because if you are just slightly aware of certain circumstances(..or advantages they'd have)that would benefit them with the collapse of alan's sanity, then everything just comes off less than stellar. i thought the editing was choppy and unexciting, but the acting from the entire cast is really below par. some stylistics help and there is a sniff of gothic atmosphere in the graveyard sequences to help it some.