fashionably fragmented, yet infuriatingly half-realized character-study, an examination of the different personalities of two college roommates: a talented but undisciplined star basketball player, and a pot-smoking, womanizing rabble-rouser. we never learn why these young men are friends. they may share confusions about the world and their places in it, but they don't seem to have anything else in common. making his directorial debut, jack nicholson--who also co-wrote the screenplay with jeremy larner, based upon larner's book--doesn't introduce us to the characters with any clarity, nor he does shape the scenes to help us identify with anyone on the screen. there are some very decent performances here (particularly from newcomer william tepper in the central role), but most of the picture is unformed (perhaps intentionally), sketchy or unsure. bruce dern plays the hard-driving basketball coach, karen black is the older, married lady tepper is having an affair with, and michael margotta is tepper's wayward friend (in an off-putting, over-the-top performance). nicholson fails to set up the sequences with any particular flavor, preferring (i assume) to let the character interaction dominate the film's tone; his script is no help either, and as a result it is unclear whom we're supposed to sympathize with. small, random moments do work (a supermarket fight between tepper and black, dern visiting tepper in his dorm-room, all of the scenes set on the court), however the entire third act of the picture is an excruciating mess. hoping to juxtapose an all-important b-ball game with a sexual assault, nicholson shows no style at his craft (nor does he earn points for chutzpah, as his staging of these events is squashy and ugly). when a director goes out of his way to humiliate his actors, one has to question his motives in doing so. perhaps if "drive, he said" ultimately made some sort of powerful statement in the bargain, audiences could forgive the filmmaker for his lapses in judgment and taste. unfortunately, the perplexing closer is as dumbfounding as much of the rest of the movie. *1/2 from ****