no movie with madeleine carroll in its cast could possibly be unwatchable. that said, i have to add that this british film comes close. the story takes place on board the `ss atlantic' and it's loosely based on the `titanic's' unfinished voyage. the word `unsinkable' is spoken, the liner strikes an iceberg, and we hear a heavenly choir sing `nearer my god to thee.' the doomed passengers eventually take over the anthem, in a clever bit of sound work. but the year of the film's release (1929) means that a modern viewer has to accept otherwise primitive sound and many of the acting conventions of silent films and the stage. these aren't problems. the film's major flaw is pacing, and pacing had been well developed in silents. however, if the dialog were delivered at a realistic speed, the movie's running time would be cut in half. the intended effect was drama (and clarity in a new medium), but the result unhappily is tiresome now. the film's structure is preposterously illogical and inept. paradoxically, i found certain details of the editing quite modern in technique: fine, abrupt cuts from one area of the ship to another, sometimes even on sound effects. although we're on board the `atlantic' from the first shot, we were well over 4 minutes into the movie before i discovered that fact. there are long, intrusive musical passages by the ship's dance orchestra. (entertaining, easy sound.) personal stories are presented in an utterly uninvolving and unconvincing way. don't even think of spectacle. the berg is a tiny thing and the exterior damage it does to the ship's hull is a minor dent. however, the scenes of passengers swarming into the lifeboats - clearly staged on a real liner, presumably tied up to a dock - generate great excitement. other than the glorious miss carroll, these sequences are the film's only points of excellence. as the movie and the ship near their end, the screen goes totally black several times when the power generators begin to fail. their last, eternal blackout is the end of the film, with a sunset/sunrise tacked on, a clumsy symbolic effect. `atlantic' is a cinema curiosity. at best.<br /><br />