this is a dumb movie. maybe my judgment wouldn't be so harsh if the film didn't promise so much, but i just felt like this movie cheated and played me for a fool at every turn.<br /><br />i didn't have any beef with the acting, but i thought the characters were awful. the movie starts off with clive owen's character telling us what a criminal mastermind he is, and how he planned the perfect bank robbery, something he frequently reminds us of later. oh yeah, he also tells us he's in a prison cell, although that turns out to be a dumb metaphor. any idiot knows that the best bank robbery is one where a minimum number of things could potentially go wrong, and you're long gone before the police show up. but clive owen's scheme requires hanging around the bank for hours - for no reason but to stalk around and look scary as far as i can tell. he also has to control hostages, negotiate with cops, and most fantastically of all, perform a this-old-house job on the bank's stockroom and hide out there for a week (i hope he brought enough food, and a bucket to pee in) and then sneak out again. yeah, that sure sounds like the perfect crime to me, clive! this plan has so many moving parts that the only reason it didn't fall apart was the screenwriter said so.<br /><br />and then there are the many unexplained details: why were the cops so convinced that the crooks had accomplices among the hostages? who the hell is jodie foster's character, and why is she so important that she has the mayor at her beck and call and she doesn't have to tell denzel washington her agenda because "it's above his pay scale?" how dumb are these cops that they can't figure out one guy speaking in a foreign language for hours is not the sound of a criminal gang planning a robbery? how did the robbers slip away, and why did clive owen stick around for a week? how did they find out about the bank chairman's past, and the number and contents of his safe deposit box? why the hell would clive owen let in jodie foster or the cops? since when do they make toy ak-47s that look real up close? how the hell do you bug a pizza box, anyway? how did clive owen manage to sneak out of a secure area of the bank during working hours, undetected? did this dispassionate criminal really feel bonded enough to this cop denzel to slip him a diamond?<br /><br />none of these questions are ever answered. there are films that achieve depth by leaving you to wonder about events that happen off-screen, but i never felt that way about inside man. it felt like the scenes that explained these things were cut from the movie, or these questions never had any answers in the first place, and that's weak. particularly annoying is jodie foster's character, who won't disclose what she does, but never seems to tire of reminding us how important she is. we're just supposed to take her word for it, i guess.<br /><br />the only reason i gave this movie two stars is i laughed at denzel's "taxi cab" and "pina colada" gags, and at the kid's outrageous video game. other than that, this movie has no redeeming features.