don't really know where to start with one of the worst films i have had the displeasure to watch in a very long time. from the setting which was quite obviously and very clear to anyone who has visited london for even 1 day will agree...was not london. to the much unexplained way how snipe's character managed to escape the country back to the us without a single problem. then he convinces the girl and grandmother to visit him in america, how on earth did grandma agree to that...he's an assassin! well that's the ending how about during the film, well unfortunately that didn't fare much better. we have british cops driving an amazing range of cars, i'm sure it was an eighties vauxhall belmont which chased the taxi after the assignation, but a modern subaru imprezza escorting the prison van in a few scenes prior. so19 or whoever the gun toting arm of the met they were trying to portray was happily running around the streets with their guns out chasing after snipe's along with the cia. there were children walking around, but the police were still stating they had a clear shot to shoot him, does this happen in london? no it doesn't, i live there. we also have the very implausible travel from central london to the airport (let's say heathrow for arguments sake) within 5 minutes of receiving a call. we also have terrible american accents, a young girl who's posher than the queen, but lives in elephant & castle. what does it say for british police when helicopters and a number of officers at snipe's location can't find snipe's and he manages to evade capture by hiding behind some stairs? the train station was obviously not even on uk soil and the fight scene sound effects were terrible. the plot was also extremely poor, boring and been written and filmed a lot better a thousand times before. but there were a few notable actors cast in this film, what were they thinking and please don't let that sway you to watch this film! this film didn't seem to know what it wanted to be, if you are going to concentrate on the dramatic aspects from the aftermath of an assignation then you need a strong rigid plot with plausible scenery and setting, this is something the viewer has time to take in and appreciate and if you do it wrong then you notice it. if you want an all out action film (which this is not) then continuity and scenery can be put to the side.