the problem with the contracter is summed up by the opening scene . the cia want an international terrorist dead so contact black ops assassin james dial . the terrorist is appearing at the old bailey court in london which begs the question why do they want to bump off a terrorist if he's going to spend the rest of his life in jail ? he's going to be out of circulation either way . didn't the cia have a chance before he was arrested ? if by some chance he gets a not guilty verdict then kill him . there's no logical reason to kill someone who is going to spend life in a maximum security prison <br /><br />since the premise sets up the story an audience might be choose to ignore the plot hole but the assination itself pours fuel upon the fire . dial's colleague is killed by a police bullet and the taxi they're driving in crashes but dial manages to escape . so the police were close enough to shoot someone but too far away to apprehend someone from a car crash ? the film of this type of plot connivance . later dial finds a police inspector pointing a gun at him saying " this airport is surrounded by armed coppers " yet dial manages to escape very easily without explanation . the whole film cheats its audience by relying on things that are never explained . this includes an important supporting character called emily day . why does she help dial even though he's a wanted fugitive ? your guess is as good as mine <br /><br />this is a fairly poor thriller and don't be taken in by the " big name " cast . wesley snipes used to qualify as a film star but killed his career by starring in more and more inconsequental films . charles dance also appeared in big budget hollywood productions such as last action hero and alien 3 but again he's someone best known for appearing in straight to dvd fare these days , and he's basically playing a cameo role anyway . the likes of lena headey may go on to become big players in cinema but they'l certainly fail to put the contracter on their resume