i have come out of several years of lurking on these boards due to the sheer lack of intelligence that is communicated through the reviews that periodically appear on this film's imdb space. i saw this movie courtesy of subway cinema's new york asian film festival (which had an otherwise excellent selection of movies this year, see vital, snake of june, cha no aji, survive style)and have regretted every day that a scene from that movie disengorges itself from the back of my mind, and becomes a vivid memory.<br /><br />i'm sure that you can read a laudatory summary of the film off of subway cinema, which is probably why i made the mistake of dragging my friend to the film. the description built up the kind of horror film that i had longed for for a while, one that relies on sheer terror rather than cheap scares. p was in fact different. it relied on cheap laughs.<br /><br />the incredibly annoying announcer described this movie as "lesbians team up to fight monsters." completely untrue. there is a subplot built up in this film to make it seem like the relationship between the girl and pookie is actually going somewhere. more lies. this film seems like a short made for "are you afraid of the dark?" the story is ridiculous, and only succeeded in eliciting laughter and confusion from the audience after they finally rescinded their attempt to view this film with any semblance of seriousness and try to forget the $9 that they wasted at the door. i almost wish paul spurrier was in the audience so that i could laugh at him and ask him why he wasted 5 years in thailand to make a bad softcore horror-cum-porn that belongs on the spice channel, which only succeeded to get the actress excommunicated from her family, and caused a minor stir at the belgium film festival. the only stir that this caused was a gurgle in the lower intestine as it couldn't extract itself from the sh*te that it is. anyway, i hope i can dissaude anyone from making the grave mistake of seeing this film, it was truly one of my top 3 worst movie experiences, knocking out soulplane for the number 2.