the godfather part i was a stunning look inside the fictional corleone family and how an innocent young man was all but forced into circumstances he never wanted to have a part of. the godfather part ii shows that young man's acceptance of his new role, his desensitization of character, as well as his complete loss of all innocence as he dives deeper and deeper into a life of crime. the first two parts of this saga of this transformation of michael corleone make for one of the greatest tragedies in cinematic history.<br /><br />then, along came the godfather part iii. michael corleone is now the aging don of the corleone family. he shows remorse for his previous actions not through subtle behaviors, but by trying to use his powers for good and admitting all his wrongdoings and regrets to others. very cliche and uncharacteristic of the complex character that is michael corleone. michael's plans to use his powers for good are derailed by an ambitious young disciple and his enemies. michael's daughter is eventually a casualty of the ongoing mob wars and her death predictably leads to michael realizing that his entire life as don has been worthless for he has failed in the one thing that was the reason for putting himself into the position he was in: protecting his family.<br /><br />the godfather part ii ends with michael corleone reaching the lowest of the lows: having his own brother killed. before part iii was made, the godfather saga was an emotionally riveting tale of an innocent young man's journey into darkness with the unbelievably tragic end of michael forgetting his roots and abandoning the one thing that has always mattered most to him and those around him: family loyalty. part iii paints the picture of michael as a man who is and always has been just a victim of circumstance. this greatly corrupts the meaning of the first two films.<br /><br />the godfather part iii is a horrible mess of a film that never should have been made. the only solution to the problem that is this final installment of the godfather movies is to pretend that it does not exist and that the saga actually ends with michael's shockingly horrible act of having a member of his own family killed.