oh if only i could give this rubbish less than one star! there were two mildly amusing parts in the whole film and that is it! one was where a line or two from the song don't worry, be happy was sung by the slugs and the other was where roddy fell of the toilet roll and landed with his feet and legs apart so that everything else he landed on on the way down hit him in the groin. that is it there was nothing more amusing than that, at least not for me anyway! doctornappy2 is not right in saying 'fans of the completely terrible "shrek" might enjoy, but "wallace & gromit" fans will probably turn away in disgust.' as i loved shrek 1 2 and 3 and i also love wallace and gromit. you see what it boils down to is that if an animation is done extremely well then it is definitely worth watching, this however was about as far from done well as you can possibly get! the continuity mistakes were too big in number. some were pointed out by the makers of this site others were not. i won't point out all of the others, but here are a few more to see: when the young daughter leaves at the start of the film the catch to the cage door comes down and the hook part of it that is on the right clearly goes back around behind the round knob thus effectively making sure roddy would not be able to get out and yet he does just by simply kicking at it. at one point the ruby falls down roddy's back and gets pushed straight up into the the air by rita all the while the ship is moving forwards. in the next scene roddy has caught it again. this is impossible. seeing as how the ship is moving forwards the only place when the ruby was ejected out from under the back of roddy's shirt the only place it could have landed was in the water not in roddy's hand. there was a third one i wanted to point out but for now i have forgotten it.<br /><br />too many, for want of a better word, 'jokes' were repeated in one way or another, there was not enough time to establish any sort of connection with any of the characters, the characters were hollow, shallow and empty, and the whole film left you wanting....wanting to watch 85 minutes of anything else! paint drying or grass growing are two superb options!