a very young ginger rogers trades quick quips and one liners with rival newspaper reporter lyle talbot in this 1933 murder mystery from poverty row film maker allied productions. the movie opens with a wealthy businessman taking a header from the roof garden of a high rise apartment house, or was it from a lover's apartment? rogers actually has two identities at the film's outset, that of miss terry, the dead victim's secretary, along with her newspaper byline of pat morgan. mistakenly phoning her story directly to ted rand (talbot) instead of her paper's rewrite desk, she gets fired for her efforts when her boss learns he's been out scooped.<br /><br />here's a puzzle - it's revealed during police inspector russell's (purnell pratt) investigation of harker's death that terry/morgan had been employed as his secretary for three weeks. why exactly was that? after the fact it would make sense that she was there for a newspaper story, but before? clues are dropped regarding harker's association with a known mobster conveniently living in the same apartment building, but again, that association isn't relevant until it's all linked up to janitor peterson (harvey clark). and who's making up all the calling cards with the serpent effecting a hsss, with the words "you will hear it" cut and pasted beneath? apparently, the hissing sound of a snake was the sound made by the apartment house's radiator system, which peterson used to transmit a poisonous gas into the rooms of potential victims, such as mrs. coby in the apartment below harker. but in answer to a question posed to inspector russell about mrs. coby's death, he replied "apparently" to the cause of strangulation.<br /><br />it's these rather conflicting plot points that made the movie somewhat unsatisfying for me. the revelation of janitor peterson as the bad guy of this piece comes under somewhat gruesome circumstances as we see him stuff the unconscious body of miss morgan in the building's incinerator furnace! however, and score another point against continuity, we see miss morgan in a huge basement room as peterson ignites the furnace; she made her getaway, but how? and still pretty as a picture. and who gets to make the collar off screen if none other than milquetoast police assistant wilfred (arthur hoyt), who in an opening scene fell over his own feet entering a room.<br /><br />sorry, but for all those reviewers who found "a shriek in the night" to be a satisfying whodunit, i feel that any charlie chan film of the same era is a veritable "the usual suspects" by comparison. if you need a reason to see the film, it would be ginger rogers, but be advised, she doesn't dance.