just saw a pre-screening tonight. what can i say? it lived up to it's mediocre trailer run, though that's saying nothing at all. it did absolutely nothing that any movie before it hasn't done, and it played out in such a clich'e fashion that eventually i got to the point where i stopped laughing only because i was laughing with the audience, and instead let the humorless movie play out.<br /><br />so let's see... we have the less-than-spectacular main character that is trying to get back with his ex-girlfriend but he's not good enough for her, check. we have the three buddies that all have their own "personality" with one being the best friend who tries to get with the main girl character's best friend but is constantly rejected, another friend being the super awkward one that can't live down seeing the positive in everything 24/7 and is thrown in for the one-liners (which in this case is just a bunch of movie references, specifically from disney), and the third guy whose name you won't ever remember but is there to complete the square and throw in consoling messages to whomever will care to listen... check. we have the girl's ex-boyfriend and her parents ****-block the relationship at any possible means when things are looking up, not to mention the awkward family members from the main character's side... check. we have the downer period an hour into the movie where everyone is depressed, check. we have the movie's "funny" moments come from incessant swearing, people falling down or being hit, scenes from the trailer, and homosexual innuendos... check. and dare i call it a spoiler, but we have an ending that unfolds exactly as one thought that it would unfold before even seeing the movie... check.<br /><br />honestly, this could have... no, wait... should have been a pg-13 movie. all that needed to be dropped were any f-bombs. honestly, it would have gotten much more publicity from the crowd that enjoys this kind of humor, would have gotten less media exposure, and thusly would have not been disliked as much from people like myself who should try and hold it up higher to the recent r-rated comedies like superbad and knocked up. the humor in this movie is just so awkward that it doesn't fit in with what general people look for. i bet even the actors were often times unsettled with some of the dialogue and action they had to deliver on camera. let's put it this way... in the theater, it will help you laugh because it's on the big screen and others are laughing. when this movie hits showtime and you're checking it out at 2:00 pm on an off-day, you may be inclined to change the channel. the only thing that will keep you watching is alice eve's hotness (who is not quite a 10, but still very good looking).<br /><br />aside from the main resolution, this film kicked a lot of subplots to the side of the curb and seemed to forget to write more story that they tried to develop in the beginning of the movie, where everything else pretty much flies out the window. so there is a main resolution, but what comes of it? it's never really clear-cut, nor does it allow the ending to be "feel-good" with the abruptness.<br /><br />there was only one thing worth nothing in this movie, and that was the good soundtrack. aside from the nice choice of 90's alternative rock songs, there was a nice upbeat score that would play in some parts of the movie (more so the beginning of it) that reminds me of something david holmes would mix up/compose. i'll give them props for a great choice of sound.<br /><br />one last thing, this movie was probably filmed sometime late last summer, because the inadvertent yet proud pepsi sponsorship showed the yellow bottle caps that they had during that rock band promotion. i just figured a lot of rock band gamers would catch onto that one if you saw it. but i say hold onto your money. if this was pg-13 and you were 15 years old on a friday night with a group of friends, i'd say knock yourselves out. otherwise, definitely pass. it doesn't try and compete with the r-rated movies of the past few years, and ideally it definitely isn't as good.