(big spoilers) i've seen one other takashi miike film, and that was the very disturbing and brutal 'audition', which was an examination of the japanese ideals of femininity! in 'visitor q'- which i think means 'visitor question'- he examines, in a very disturbingly gross way, the family unit. miike's surreal vision of a dysfunctional family almost tries to be lynchian in terms of confusion and film-making, but ultimately lacks the style and intrigue. we, the audience, are introduced to a bizarre array of scenarios from the opening scene with the father figure (kenichi endo- who was actually quite good) paying for sex with his displaced daughter (fujiko). then, as the father returns home, he is struck on the head by "the visitor" (kazushi watanabe) wielding a fairly sizeable rock, and for some reason, they both end up back at the family home. the mother (shungiku uchida) is beaten and bullied by her son (jun muto) who is also beaten and bullied by his school peers. when the visitor enters the home, he somewhat menacingly establishes himself as part of the unit. eventually, the family begin to improve their relationship, with assistance from the visitor, through milking breasts, murder and retaining a sense of family pride.<br /><br />and there are other crazy scenes that somehow bring the family closer together. it's has uncomfortable humour, but is equally frustratingly silly, and over-the-top in its weirdness. there is a necrophiliac scene that is utterly disgusting, but ends up being ridiculously funny as the scene progresses. partly because of the situation itself, and partly because you can't believe the filmmakers and the actors are actually doing this! the style of the film is poor to say the least, and the plot is stupid and unbelievably weak. the characters themselves are all over the place, and while i understand this is not meant to be realistic, there is hardly any interest in these confronting characters and situations as all of them border on the absurd! the camera-work is sloppy, and doesn't have that cinematic feel that lynch's work entails. it's hard to take this film seriously on a surrealist level, or on an interpretation of examining the family unit in japan. it just seems that miike was out to shock, and the film seems self-aware that it's "trying" to be shocking, and it becomes almost comical to be taken seriously. all in all, i would say that this film is a bizarrely dark comedy, but it looks and feels amateurish, and seems to unnecessarily want to shock. miike's previous film, audition, was finely balanced between disgusting horror, character development and technique- which established more intrigue in the way the film was crafted to allow the viewer to become engrossed with the plot. 'visitor q' is a step down as it tries too hard to be outlandishly bizarre and intentionally confronting, without really having much to say in the process! <br /><br />** out of *****!