here are the matches . . . (adv. = advantage)<br /><br />the warriors (ultimate warrior, texas tornado and legion of doom) v the perfect team (mr perfect, ax, smash and crush of demolition): ax is the first to go in seconds when warrior splashes him for the pin (4-3 adv. warriors). i knew ax wasn't a healthy man but if he was that unhealthy why bother have him on the card? this would be his last ppv. eventually, both legion of doom and demolition job out cheaply via double disqualification (2-1 adv. warriors). perfect applies the perfect plex on texas tornado for the pin. he then attempts the same on warrior but warrior no-sells it and kicks out. warrior comes back with a splash to pin perfect and become the sole survivor. 5/10<br /><br />the dream team (dusty rhodes, koko b ware and the hart foundation v million dollar team (ted dibiase, mystery partner and rhythm and blues): the mystery partner is the undertaker and, on his debut, makes an impact disposing of koko straight away with the tombstone(monsoon still manages to say his correct height, weight and finishing move while pretending not to know who he is) making it 4-3 to dibiase's team. niedhart power-slams honky for the pin (3-3) and his career with the wwf is over. shortly afterwards, it is niedhart who falls victim to dibiase with help from virgil (3-2 adv. dibiase's team). rhodes next after an undertaker double axe-handle off the top rope but doesn't leave quietly attacking brother love. undertaker goes after dusty and gets counted out despite not being the legal man (2-1 adv. dibiase's team). almost straight after, greg gets caught in a cradle by hart trying to put the figure four leg-lock on him and gets pinned. it comes down to hart v dibiase and after a few minutes of nice wrestling, bret gets his body-cross reversed by dibiase for the pin. dibiase is the sole survivor. at least hart is put to good use. 6/10<br /><br />the vipers (jake 'the snake' roberts, 'superfly' jimmy snuka and the rockers) v visionaries (rick 'model' martel, warlord and power and glory): after spending some time in the ring, marty jannetty gets power slammed by warlord as he comes off the top rope for the pin (4-3 adv. visionaries). snuka gets pinned in seconds by martel who reverses his body cross (4-2 adv. visionaries). michaels gets caught in the power plex and pinned by roma (4-1 adv. visionaries). it is now roberts against four men resembling his survivor series effort two years before. despite hitting warlord with the ddt, roberts gets counted out chasing after martel. the visionaries are the first team in survivor series history to completely survive as one. not much here worth watching to be honest as the psychology is rushed. 3/10<br /><br />hulkamaniacs (hulk hogan, 'hacksaw' jim duggan, bigbossman and tugboat) v natural disasters (earthquake, dino bravo, barbarian and haku): one bossman slam eliminates haku early in the bout (4-3 adv. hulkamaniacs). duggan gets his 2 by 4 out after whacking earthquake with it to get disqualified (3-3). bravo commits career suicide shortly afterwards by allowing hogan to cradle him for the pin (3-2 adv. hulkamaniacs). earthquake manages to overcome bossman with two elbow drops for the pin shortly afterwards (2-2). hogan gets beat down and finally tugboat gets a tag (who knew he was there at this point?), he wrestles for about 30 seconds before getting counted out with earthquake. only hogan and barbarian left. barbarian puts in some nice offence but inevitably gets caught in the big boot and leg drop for the pin. hogan is the sole survivor. 4/10<br /><br />the alliance (nikolai volkoff, tito santana and bushwhackers) v mercenaries (sgt slaughter, boris zhukov and orient express): all of the mercanaries wore camouflage face paint. lightning quick pins here with santana pinning zhukov in his last ppv in seconds (4-3 adv. alliance). there wasn't even a bolshevik showdown. bushwhackers hit sato with the battering ram even though tanaka was the legal man (4-2 adv. alliance) and would be his last appearance on wwf ppv as the orient express get repackaged. tanaka follows sato when santana stuns him with the flying forearm (4-1 adv. alliance). despite slaughter getting in the ring against four men, he eliminates volkoff (who's career is over after this), butch and luke in that order with relative ease. finally, santana beats slaughter by disqualification when general adnan hits him with iraqi flag. at last some interesting booking even though the match was awful. santana takes the upset victory as the sole survivor and becomes his last finest hour. 3/10<br /><br />the egg hatches and it's hector guerrerro in a silly outfit. he dances with gene okerlund and gets booed by the crowd while piper and monsoon pretend they are enjoying it. <br /><br />match of survival: ultimate warrior, hulk hogan and tito santana v warlord, power and glory, rick 'model' martel and 'million dollar man ted dibiase: just merely another catalogue of eliminations as santana pins warlord in seconds with flying forearm at least avenging his previous summerslam defeat (4-3 adv. dibiase's team). dibiase stun guns santana afterwards for the pin (4-2 adv. dibiase's team). hogan kicks out of the power plex and proceeds to pin roma after a clothesline, effectively killing off power and glory's push (3-2 adv. dibiase's team). hogan eliminates martel by count-out and dibiase with the leg drop for the pin (2-1 adv. hogan's team). hogan finally allows warrior into the match who quickly disposes of former nemesis hercules after a splash. a very predictable ending to the point of nauseous. 2/10<br /><br />overall, too many matches and too little time obviously had a detrimental effect as the wrestlers were almost waiting on a conveyor belt to be pinned. most of the heels were decimated by warrior and hogan which is a poor way to handle a great roster of wrestlers.