i'd have to say that this was a little embarrassing for the 'king of the cowboys'; made in 1948, the picture came out a decade after roy rogers' earliest pictures in which he had a starring role. roy's character comes off as a bit clueless in this one, along with his female co-star jane frazee, who alternates her allegiance between roy and robert livingston, portraying chief bad guy bill regan. the whole story seems kind of muddled, with missed opportunities for what could have been an entertaining hour or so. like the legend of the 'hangman's hotel' for example, which says the hanged man comes to life at midnight. with andy devine in the cast as cookie bullfincher, you would think the story would get a little mileage out of that set up. instead, you have some convoluted proceedings that would have been better served if this had been a bowery boys flick. it was a sad attempt at a haunted hotel gimmick that relied on poor old genevieve, who truth be told, wound up getting more screen time than trigger, who's contract as 'smartest horse in the movies' didn't have anything to say about getting upstaged by a mule. and then you have foy willing and his riders of the purple sage replacing bob nolan and the sons of the pioneers for your musical interlude. i don't know about you, but it was already half way into the picture and i was still looking for pat brady - oh well! <br /><br />yet there was still an interesting element to be found here if you were looking hard enough, and that turned out to be roy's athletic dismount of trigger while still on the run from the bad guys. ok, it was probably a stunt double, but i haven't seen that one before in a couple hundred westerns.<br /><br />jane frazee does the honors as the female lead in this picture, as she would in four other films opposite roy in the 1947/1948 time frame. in "under california stars", she appeared as andy devine's cousin, appropriately named caroline bullfincher. you're never quite convinced what side she'll come in on in this story though, since she starts out pretending to be someone she's not, and winds up on the good guy side almost by accident.<br /><br />fans of the old laurel and hardy films might be as surprised as i was to see james finlayson here as the sheriff of sintown. i would have liked a little more comedy relief written into his role, but he played it pretty straight after all. i had to wonder, when it was all over, why he and old vanderpool (charle coleman) wound up in the mine shaft with cookie when there was no reason for that to be. just a way to close it out i guess, with about as much thought as went into the rest of the picture. i hate to be that harsh, but if you've seen enough roy rogers flicks, you've got to know that this was not one of his finer efforts.<br /><br />say, sintown - i wonder if that's the same place that grew up to be sin city?