amy poehler and rachel dratch are among the funnier women to have been on "saturday night live". it's unfortunate that they, along with tina fey and maya rudolph, were on snl during the longest stretch of unfunny writing and sketch-making (circa 2002-2006) the show has ever had. still, these two women most especially know what's funny, and they know how to write a funny movie.<br /><br />you'll notice in the credits of this movie that dratch and director ryan shiraki wrote the story for "spring breakdown", but who wrote the actual screenplay, consisting of dialogue and all the important fill-in-the-blank material that makes a story into a multidimensional movie? yep, just shiraki. just one guy wrote the dialogue for this movie, and no women apparently wrote the script with him. the result is a pretty clich'e spring break movie that doesn't so much spoof the faux holiday as much as exploit it equally as much as mtv does every year.<br /><br />if dratch, poehler, and even co-star parker posey could have contributed their handwriting to the screenplay, it would have been far less clich'e. the premise is original, being about three thirty-something women who were unpopular in high school (and apparently college, too) who never had the fun spring break trip they allegedly dreamed about. i say "allegedly" because you never quite know what fun is to these characters. they entered talent shows in the past where they sing stale pro-woman anthems like "true colors", and spend their nights together holding make-your-own-pizza parties. even though none of them are especially unattractive, the outside world appears to treat them like they are. there's a scene where a blind student of poehler's (played by poehler's real life husband will arnett) asks her out on a date, only to touch her face and immediately change his mind. if poehler's character is supposed to be unattractive, they obviously hired the wrong actress.<br /><br />the movie continues to show promise, even though we have our doubts about the main characters, when posey's boss, texas senator 'kay bee' hartmann (jane lynch, funny as always) hires posey to watch over her unpopular college-age daughter (amber tamblyn, playing yet another woman who's attractive in real life, but not in the eyes of any characters in this movie) while she goes to a laguna beach-like vacation spot for spring break. poehler and dratch come along, they reluctantly get boozed up, party like they apparently should have when they were in college, and then comes the ultimate showdown with the sorority bitches lead by sophie monk.<br /><br />sophie monk is an incredibly attractive woman who has a body both women and men would kill to have for different reasons. unfortunately, her movie career is off to a rough start with the abominably unfunny "date movie" (2006) and the disappointing "click" (2006). here, she plays a southern belle, although her voice sounds like she stole delta burke's voice box. she hams it up a little too much, trying too hard to play a conniving bitch that she comes off as much like a caricature of spoiled college kids as the rest of the extras.<br /><br />"spring breakdown" was released straight to dvd despite the star power of amy poehler, but rightly so because the story is way too clich'e. it may as well have been called "national lampoon's spring breakdown", and the magazine probably wouldn't have sued for trademark infringement because of the free publicity. if director shiraki had given at least one woman the creative input, especially rachel dratch, this movie would have been great and not nearly as run-of-the-mill as frat-house comedies we've seen before. i know dratch will come up with another funny concept, and hopefully be allowed to fill in the rest of the screenplay herself. she's funny enough, and she deserves better than this half-baked comedy that would accept stiffler's brother with open arms.