another big star cast, another glamour's set, another reputed director, another flick filled with songs that's topping the chart buster, but alas what's missing at the day end is a story that every moviegoer expects of from such a big budget motion picture. so much hype is what that was lurking around the movie before it's' red carpet premiere. a hype which went to an extent where anil kapoor envisages that the movie would be one of the finest love stories ever made after dilwale dulhaniya le jayenge. well anilji, which movie were you speaking of? well the plot of the movie is about 6 different couples and 12 different people, who have a total different stance towards life, but despite their different approach towards life they all have one common problem, that's love. well indeed a luring theme. but little did we expect that the movie would be such boredom that it will let down the last expectation the audience would have from such a multistarrer movie. these are kinda movies which i totally abhor because after spending a hefty buck for a multiplex ticket i get locked in the theatre for 4 hours just waiting in agony for the climax.<br /><br />the trouble begins right from the start. the director gets so confused with the plot that somewhere even he gets baffled as to how to share the time slot to six different star casts. some of the couples like anil kapoor-juhi and sohail khan-(whoever the female is opposite to him) just doesn't make any sense for their existence in the movie. salman (who calls himself rahul in a weird manner for the entire movie. well something like rahoooooool) again as usual tries to be extra cool with his videsi kinda hindi accent. hey sallu bhai, now that aish is getting married, at least go get some tip from abhishek to improve your acting abilities. a simple striptease wouldn't make the movie a box office hit every time. and anilji stop shaving your trade mark beard or you look totally like a eunuch. and smooching a girl of your daughters' age just looks as uncool as watching jack nicholson in a romantic movie. and please nikhilji avoid putting such superfluous scenes in a movie that is totally not needed for the shot.<br /><br />the other bigger flaw in the movie was that there wasn't any perfect synchronization between the stories of different couples. every story itself looks as if it is taken from different flicks, put together to form a sadistic plot of salaam-e-ishq. bollywood still has to learn a lot from movies like snatch, memento where the director knows the perfect art of threading the different unrelated sequences to form a perfect blended storyline.<br /><br />somewhere while i was evaluating the pre-release movie reviews someone predicted that the movie wouldn't do good because the title of this movie adds up to the number 28, and 28 is considered a bad number in numerology. but i totally take my stand by saying the movie will fail not coz of its numerology defects, but because of the myriads of flaw that persisted in the movie. and when director like nikhil advani can make such major blunders in the entire storyline of the movie, any wonder wouldn't have saved the movie from bombing at the box office.<br /><br />my suggestion for all you guys is, please avoid watching this movie at any cost. it isn't worth a pie that you pay for the ticket. there indeed are better movies on theater screens currently which are worth watching more than salaam-e-ishq.