this is a sad film made for sad people. i was sitting in theaters tearing my hair apart, wanting to break the chairs in front of me as the movie spitted out one cringe-inducing scenes after another. and there were people roaring with laughter behind me, which made me wonder what kind of films these people must be watching to actually enjoy this horse-s**t.<br /><br />nikkhil advani has six stories with no plot and no interesting characters. the screenplay is dull, probably he was drunk when he was writing this film. there is no strong hold on any of these stories. nothing new , nothing to hold the audience and filled with dialogs which you would have heard a million times before. one of the stories is about this couple not being able to have sex because of series of disasters taking place every time they want to do it. i mean seriously is this story really required? its not funny, not creative but only proves that advani has no sense of comedy. another of the stories (which was probably the only story i was interested in) is based on a man's infidelity and that too ends in a lame age-old sati-savitri pati-parmeshwar crap. i have no idea what the salmaan-priyanka plot was all about. there was no issue in the plot for it to be a plot. she can't take karan johar's film because she has to marry salmaan ?? why can't she marry him and still take the film ?? or does advani and priyanaka just want to prove the world that it is in fact true that female actors cant be successful if they are married or that they should not act in films once they are married?? with six actors in the film obviously advani cant produce the film all by himself. so he makes full use of sponsors like the times group, shamelessly promoting their filmfare magazines. and also some jewelery brand which the women in the film absolutely seem to adore!! i come to imdb to give it the worst rating and i am shocked to see posts praising the film. it just goes to show the sad state of bollywood and how star struck the fans are. with fans like these, movies like salaam e ishq will be continue to be made and worse probably be a hit.