'baptists at our barbecue' is the best film ever made. now, that i got your attention with that horribly inaccurate statement that should be a hanging offense if spoken, let me begin my short overview of this tacky, offensive, pretentious and boring hunk of junk i guess you could consider a movie. first of all, the low budget of this stinker is totally obvious based on the very poor and inexperienced direction of christian vuissa, and the tacky, overly preachy, whiny and stilted screenplay by f. mathew smith. i really despise the fact that it sends a very pro-mormon, and sort of anti-every other religion message. yes, the story is about a small town half full with mormons and half full with baptists. it shows all the main and role-model characters being mormon, and being so nice and perfect, yet they are being picked on by the evil, conniving and very judgmental baptists. it shows how beautiful mormons are and how cold-hearted and ignorant baptists are, instead of showing a little solidarity like would be appropriate and realistic. i'm a part of neither religion (i'm actually an atheist), but this offended me, along with another countless amount of baptists most likely. it shows the baptists as being very unopened and unwelcoming to the mormons, and the mormons being very accepting, when again, in reality there is a mutual like/dislike between them. sorry, i didn't mean to go off on a rant.<br /><br />another aspect of 'baptists at our barbecue' i didn't much care for, was the acting. the performances are very amateurish and unnatural, especially from the female lead heather beers. miss beers stumbles her way through her part without any passion or feeling for her role, and i wasn't too much impressed with dan merkley, who's the main character in this lackluster of a motion picture, but i have to say he's way more talented or shows more talent in this film then heather beers. whoever played the town sheriff was awful also. although there is maybe a tiny laugh deep within the film, it is full of clich'es. for example, the main character, tartan (merkley), finds solace with a native american who always gives him the best advice on things relating to a tribal way of life - how clich'e is that? to make the situation even more of a pathetic clich'e, tartan buys the poor, lonely heathen a puppy dog. ugghhh! <br /><br />if you want my advice, stay as far away from 'baptists at our barbecue' as you can. i saw it on the shelf and thought it would be a cute and interesting little indie about religion. all i got was a, well, piece of crap. grade: d-<br /><br />my ratings guide - a+ (absolutley flawless); a (a masterpiece, near-perfect); a- (excellent); b+ (great); b (very good); b- (good); c+ (a mixed bag); c (average); c- (disappointing); d+ (bad); d (very bad); d- (absolutley horrendous); f (not one redeeming quality in this hunk of hollywood feces).