offering a killer combo of terrible writing, terrible acting and terrible direction, it's a tossup whether kinjite: forbidden subjects is offensively bad or just hilariously bad. it's almost as if someone ran a competition to make the sleaziest, seediest cannon film. as if a glance at a cast list including characters like 'lesbian pedophile,' 'perverted gentleman,' 'porno actress' weren't enough, it's your only chance to see charles bronson's cop throw a lowlife on a bed and grab a dildo - but don't worry, it's okay, as the offscreen screams make clear he's only torturing him for information. after all, even if he is a bit overprotective of his nice catholic daughter, he's a nice catholic cop who regularly brings local catholic priest william o'connell a packed lunch and who believes in poetic justice - or at least ensuring that the bad guys end up in the slammer with the horniest inmates maximum security can provide to give them a taste of their own medicine. but then that's what you get for telling him "look, i think you're a little bit unstable." still, when later offered a bribe, he may snarl "i'd like to shove this up your ass, but i don't want to get my hands dirty," he's clearly learned where to draw the line: instead, he just makes him eat a $25,000 watch and sets fire to his cadillac. the anal obsession even follows through to the film's title: despite the poster featuring a naked japanese girl on a porn film set, the film's only direct example of kinjite/forbidden subjects, as alex hyde white's english teacher explains to a group of japanese businessmen, is, er talking about your bowel movements in polite society.<br /><br />bronson isn't just too old for this, as the opening fight makes only too clear, he's too old for love interest peggy lipton, and she looks old enough to have grown-up kids. a better actor than he ever got the credit for when given the right material, here's he's given less a properly thought out character than a series of outrageous reactionary quirks. when he's not widening the circles of suspects he's accidentally dropping them to their death off the sides of buildings. he's definitely not a p.c. copper, with a special loathing for the japanese - as if it wasn't bad enough that they're buying up american businesses, what's worse, they double-park on a public thoroughfare! no racial minority goes unassaulted, be they black pimp or pakistani hotel clerk, no cop clich'e unrecycled, be it a boss who bangs his fist on the table or a dead meat partner (perry lopez and his spectacularly bad hair dye that's so prominent it deserves screen billing all its own). the twin plot strands - bronson's l.a. cop trying to take down juan hernandez's pimp who deals in underage girls and james pax's porn-obsessed japanese businessman 