i rented this shortly after renting ben stein's "expelled" and thought it would interesting to compare them. before i go further, it seems only fair that i point out the following so a reader can see if i'm prejudiced or not. i'm trying to be objective, for the record.<br /><br />i tend to enjoy maher's hbo show now and then, though i rarely think he's the source of the humor. i don't really care for his stand-up either. but he makes some good points on the show now and again, and i liked politically incorrect, though he was still fairly politically correct (which i deem a negative because the very term sounds orwellian or at least fascist). as for my religious views, i'll say for simplicity's sake that i'm a non-denom. christian with some views that are objectivist and some that are agnostic mixed in.<br /><br />that being said, this a bad "documentary" for reasons that haven't been touched on yet by many reviewers--though the ones mentioned are valid too. the reason it's not convincing isn't just that he argues the main point without letting others talk (and his point boils down to nothing logical either, it's just "come on, really?" which isn't a point, just a question. try david hume if you want a decent argument.). the reason this isn't convincing lies in his lack of experts on the subject matter. i saw this about 2 months ago and i only recall him talking to one person whose credentials as a professional were mentioned if he wasn't a clergyman. there are probably hundreds of scientists or at least professors with masters or doctorates willing to do a bit of verbal sparring, particularly in the fields of history, anthropology or a host of others.<br /><br />if one compares this to ben stein's "expelled: no intelligence allowed" he'll find that stein interviews about 30 credentialed professors, professionals, clergy, etc. he does this with a variety of sources with various backgrounds. he also makes a point in his film regarding freedom of thought and education. maher could easily have pointed out wrongs committed by theocratic rules throughout centuries or persecutions from this. instead he idiotically refers to the 20th century's secular totalitarian regimes as evidence of why secularism needs more socio-political power!!!! (it's in the bonus features where he's standing in front of the anne frank house i think.) this is a true orwellian head-trip. he blames christianity in particular on many pointless deaths--which has had its share, though far smaller than most!!--without even including a basic view of the evidence. perhaps this is because that argument is dwarfed by secular humanism's miserable record of the 20th century alone.<br /><br />another glaring weakness is his unwillingness to talk to anyone that would be considered a moderate or "average" practitioner. he picks out the weakest gazelles of the herd. how difficult is that? how does proving the existence of exceptions move toward disproving the general rule? it does not. wow, so people in cults think outside of the norm? how enlightening to know this. great work maher! again, it would be fairly easy to interview someone like laurence vance and include his work on refuting the idea of "patriotic duty" that demands a person fight in any war his country is involved in.<br /><br />beyond all that, he's just not that funny here. some of the clips that are overlaid in "clever" out of context/irreverent ways might garner a laugh, but mostly work to illustrate how a real contextual argument from maher will not be forthcoming, much less convincing. he spends most of his time bashing christians, spouting inaccuracies, and interviewing fringe groups that he doesn't allow to really answer his questions.<br /><br />for the record, there are good questions to honestly ask of religious folks and many they should ask of themselves. he touches on almost none of these. i get the feeling that i could've responded much better to most of his questioning than the people he interviewed, but the whole thing reeks of deck-stacking in terms of what is included and what was edited out.