first, a little summary. this reporter named torch is basically trying to get out the story of a zombie outbreak and finds the military & government censoring him. nice message, government censorship and all that, but the way they did the movie was, well let me explain.<br /><br />this movie is beyond description. the idea that somebody holds it in higher regard than anything by george romero is justification enough for the reviewer to be committed to a mental institution. the script is atrocious on its own, like it was written by a sixth grader.as for special effects, i understand that independent films have low budgets, and some gore effects looked acceptable, but if you want a scene with fire, here's a tip: buy some nonflammable material, have an extinguisher ready, and get a fire going! don't digitally add it in and make it look like an explosion from a nintendo 64 game. the acting, well let's put it this way. in my summer theater program, a cold reading of the script is, compared to this, the godfather. i won't even go into the inconsistencies. find them yourself.<br /><br />what disturbed me the most, though, was when everything was finished after shooting and editing, somebody might have said, "okay, this looks good. let's release it." it sends a chill down my spine to even think about it, to think somebody felt that this was good enough for dvd release. this isn't dvd quality. this isn't sci-fi channel quality. hell, this isn't even film school quality. if you were to submit this in for a project at a film school, you would get an f. no, not even an f, more like an f-. i wouldn't be surprised if he would try to get you expelled.<br /><br />i felt used after i saw this thing. blockbuster and the makers of this movie have my money right now, and i'd prefer not to think of what they're doing with it. i have been the pawn of some elaborate, nefarious scheme at legalized theft, and it doesn't feel good to think that i walked right into it, looking at the back cover with pleasant memories of 28 days later only to find a film ed wood would watch and say afterwards, "i didn't much care for this." this film is the single most terrible movie i have seen. i have not seen anything by ed wood, but i have confidence this is worse. if you are looking for serious cinema, so much as being within ten feet of it will probably give you a bad headache. if not, i still recommend that you personally write the director and ask how he sleeps at night. however, if you are the kind of person who get a laugh out of really bad stuff then i recommend you check this out. you won't be disappointed.