as you may have gathered from the title, i wholeheartedly believe this movie to be the worst zombie movie of all time. the acting, camera-work, writing, special effects and anything else remotely related to this movie sucked. people have argued that while this movie is terribly-acted and terribly-produced but it comes through with a witty intelligent script. wow. the plot has more holes than i or anyone else could possibly count. for starters, why would the government tell everyone to go back to work when it's not safe? i know the government's supposed to be evil but they don't gain anything by killing the entire population of the country. there wouldn't be anyone to govern! another thing that i was wondering about, even if the government told everyone to go to work, why would people go if the streets were swarming with zombies? were the zombies going to hide in the bushes and ambush the unsuspecting people in order to aid the government in their plot to kill everyone on the planet? and how about the ending? that stupid torch guy sacrifices his life in order to get a few close up shots of the zombies. he probably forgot that every camera made in the last 35 years has a zoom feature. and another thing, why does he say hindenburg before he dies. the hindenburg was a rare event seen by a very few people. the zombie menace will been seen by everyone in the country, possibly the world. he doesn't think anyone else will get a few snapshots? they also managed to ruin the only semi-interesting scene in the film when the soldier is watching the exotic dancer. why did the zombie hide behind a curtain for five minutes before attacking the girl? especially when the zombie could have come through the door. it's probably just something an unintelligent zombie movie fan such as myself wouldn't understand. every day i pray that god with increase my brain capacity long enough for me to figure out all the subtle nuances in feeding the masses.<br /><br />anywho, i think it's interesting that this is the first movie that gave me the desire to physically hurt the people involved in the production. hey trent haaga, i'm calling you out!