this is an immoral and reprehensible piece of garbage, that no doubt wants to be a friday the 13th (1980) clone. the poster for this movie makes it look like there's going to be some sort of a cross between jason and freddy, which is likely to attract movie-goers. there is nothing good or entertaining about this movie about this movie. it just makes me sad, just thinking that some people are going to stumble upon sleepaway camp ii: unhappy campers (1988) on video or dvd, and waste their time with this sad, cynical, depressing movie.<br /><br />angela baker (pamela springsteen) is a camp counselor at camp rolling hills, who hopes that the other campers are as nice as she is, and that they stay out of trouble. meanwhile, the other campers are realizing that people are disappearing one by one, with angela making up the excuse that she had to send them home. could angela be the killer, who was once a man, who underwent a sex change operation years earlier? who knows? who cares?<br /><br />the 1980s was home to a lot of movies that made the cross between the mad slasher and dead teenager genres, in which a mad killer goes berserk. some have a plot, some don't, but they're all about as bad as this one. sleepaway camp ii: unhappy campers is 80 minutes of teenagers being introduced and then being stabbed, strangled, impaled, chopped up, burned alive, and mutilated. that's all this movie is. it is just mindless, bloody violence.<br /><br />watching this movie, i was reminded of the friday the 13th movies, in which the message for its viewers was that the primary function of teenagers is to be hacked to death. the filmmakers of sleepaway camp ii have every right to be ashamed of themselves. imagine the sick message that this movie offers for its teen viewers: "the world is a totally evil place," this movie tells you, " and it'll kill you. it doesn't matter what your dreams or your hopes are. it doesn't matter if you have a new boyfriend, or a new girlfriend. it doesn't matter what you think, what you do or what your plans for the future are. you can forget those plans, because you're just going to wind up dead." <br /><br />and the sickest thing is--and by not giving too much away--the movie simply sets up room for a sequel. well, why not? they've probably and already taken the bucket to the cesspool by making three or four of these movies. i missed out on the original sleepaway camp (1983), and, after watching its first sequel, i will hopefully stay away from the other sequels, as well as the original. and for parents, if you know kids who actually like this movie, do not let them date your children.