first of all, really kim basinger? your rich banker husband leaves you alone in your beautiful, most likely paid in cash for home, and you can't even put on a decent shirt? i'm a woman, and yes, i'm going to come right out say it--clean something, starting with your hair. and while you're at it, it's christmas eve. buy your kids some presents...or at least a christmas tree. don't drive 40 minutes to the crowded mall, park your car 3 miles away and cry about it the whole walk in, and simply buy wrapping paper. also, the next time you decide to leave someone a nasty note, don't sign your name. i refuse to feel sorry for della. obviously, due to the fact that kim basinger is this masterpiece's executive producer, she wants you to feel bad for the poor white blond woman. we get it. alec baldwin is a jerk, but seriously, don't model horrible films after your own life. also, you're in you 50s. you definitely wouldn't have 8 year old twins. and those names? terry and tammy. way to let your kids grow up with any decent chance of ever respecting themselves. it's also pretty fantastic to hear the characters in the film constantly call her beautiful or refer to her as a "girl"...obviously ms. basinger had some say about what goes in the script. it's also pretty awesome how none of the criminals can fight back. apparently, della's magical ninja skills are impossible to beat. her driving skills are pretty nifty too. this film is so clich'e, it hurts. wahhhhh! they spelled your name wrong on the tea cup. or your husband put a hole in the wall but all you can think about is buying nail polish when you're at the mall instead of maybe some plaster and paint. or the woman you went to high school with bought the teddy you were looking at. boohooo! the fact that she refuses to take off that bright trench coat while running through the woods screaming and breaking everything in her path proves my point--this woman is a moron. who thinks to grab the toolbox out of the car, but not their purse, full of identifying artifacts such as your address. i have never wanted the "bad guys" to succeed as much as when i watched this film. and did anyone else happen to catch the "african american" shirt the black guy was sporting? oh yes, rewind and feast your eyes on perhaps the most racially stereotypical prop in a film yet. don't waste and hour and twenty minutes of your life. instead, go do what della couldn't figure out how to do...take care of your kids, and maybe brush your hair. that powerful ballad at the end though was pretty impressive. singing "i'll be home for christmas" in the rain while your bloody arm clings oh so tightly to your wrapping paper is about as emotional as it gets. thanks della!