the ghost of the vietnam war has haunted the american psyche for thirty years now. if not because of the fact that tens of thousands of american soldiers went mia in vietnam, or the manner in which those who returned were treated, then because it was the first war that america could be said to have lost. many men came home from the war a shadow of their former selves, and the original first blood managed to provide a small insight into their problems as they attempted to rotate back into the world, as the saying goes. first blood part ii, on the other hand, is little more than a fist-pumping mess that goes to illustrate how sore america can be, both in victory and defeat. stallone puts in another sluggish performance as the titular special forces commando, while richard crenna attempts to hold up the serious actor quotient. where it all comes undone is in the script, which didn't do any better when it was called missing in action and starred chuck norris. what little semblance of logic there was in the original is now gone, as the filmmakers decide to paint a big s on rambo's massive chest.<br /><br />the film picks up a little while after the end of first blood. the film, that is - the novel didn't allow for the possibility of sequels. in this mediocre follow-up, rambo has been put to work at what appears to be some sort of open-air mine. as he is breaking rocks and working up a sweat, a prison guard pulls him away to go and have a chat with colonel trautman, who advises him that his government is willing to offer him an early release if he goes on a covert mission. rambo, never one to back down from a hard day's violent work, accepts, and is promptly shipped off to a covert base in what appears to be cambodia or thailand (i forget which). from there, he is commissioned to seek out a camp where american mias are supposedly being held, and photograph them. his mission quite clearly specifies that he is not to make any attempt to secure their release. rambo being rambo, however, has other ideas in spite of their possible political implications.<br /><br />of course, things go somewhat awry when it turns out that the people commissioning rambo's work have more interest in making sure no american mias are found. it is the age-old conspiracy theory, and makes no apologies for exploiting the plight of many an american family that was left without a son during the ten years that the official vietnam war had been raging for. of course, with the jingoism that was inherent in american society during the 1980s, they could not help but work in a plot tangent about the vietnamese army being in bed with what appears to be a single battalion of russians. together, the two antagonists attempt to extract what information they can from rambo, but it backfires upon them in an orgy of bullets, arrows, rockets, and destruction. about the only thing missing is the moment when rambo drinks from a grail-like chalice and declares himself invincible.<br /><br />to be honest, first blood part ii is a well-photographed, and well-choreographed, action spectacle. the hand-to-hand combat with the larger russian commander is one of the few battles in the film that has any dramatic tension whatsoever. the rest is simply a case of the lead actor and the director building a fantasy for americans to pump their fist to. fortunately, this fad of america "uber alles action films soon died down when more introspective and intelligent war films such as platoon began doing the rounds. some of the kills shown here are quite creative, despite all the problems. the vietnamese commander meets an end that many an action film villain would envy. the russian commander bites it in a manner that is as spectacular as it is ridiculous. only in a 1980s action film would one see a law being used from inside a helicopter. sure, there have been action film clich'es rooted in contradictions of fact, but never this ridiculous before.<br /><br />i gave rambo: first blood part ii a one out of ten. it is so bad it is ridiculous, and so ridiculous that it is often funny. one doesn't even need to have served in the military to know how stupid some of the action sequences are. the only risk it takes is in trying to make a stupid political statement with what is a heartbreaking subject for those directly involved. keep the tongue firmly in the cheek, and it might be watchable.