well after three times through i still have no idea what this movie is about because, quite honestly, it failed to generate any real interest or concern. but here it goes: a bunch of too old to be teen teen actors dressed in horrifying latter 1980's fashions (did we look like that too??) decide it would be a really good idea to get in a motorboat and go visit the abandoned alcatraz after one of them has nightmares of people being slaughtered in various horrifying ways that manage to rip off poltergeist, the evil dead, and freddy kreuger in one fell swoop. the dimwit even envisions himself being roasted over an open fire with some deformed freak slicing off strips of tenderloin. good thing it was only a dream or it might have hurt, and good thing his dreams had a decent special effects budget. mine are usually pretty lame: girls, model space ships, blowing things up with a bazooka, etc.<br /><br />once on the alcatraz island they find themselves in a slasher movie, and meet up with tony basil, who cannot help but break into a couple dance poses at times and had her own lighting crew (complete with a smoke machine for that 1980's smoky haze infused light look, which i kind of miss). and such reminded me that ms. basil helped choreograph david byrne of the talking heads for some of his videos and performances. this of course has nothing at all to do with the film but kept popping into mind as the movie posed very little to actually think about. it sort of happens, and you can either watch or keep working on your page markup with it on the tv set off to the side. but since the film isn't really interesting, you'll keep deciding to finish one last thing instead of wasting time, the movie will keep ending, and you'll find yourself wondering what you missed every time you realize the end credits are starting to roll again, dammit ...<br /><br />*some* 1980's teen horror movies can survive such specialized viewing: umberto lenzi's ghosthouse, chopping mall & it's killbots, the hard to ignore night of the creeps and the over-the-top sleepaway camp all come to mind. they are films that, like them or not, demand your attention and usually pay off with some good gore or t&a, and typos in your work as evidence that you were watching the tv instead of your keyboard. i am sure that hell island (as the british version i glommed onto is titled) does indeed have some good stuff in there, but frankly i don't care. and nothing is more annoying that encountering art of any genre that doesn't inspire admiration, some decent dislike or even good old honest hatred for it. the film is content with simpering away 80-whatever minutes of time and never really accomplishing anything more than being a sometimes distraction in spite of my best efforts to try and give it a chance, but no dice.<br /><br />there is some offbeat production design going on, the use of lighting is striking at times, and the occasional outburst of mayhem will probably keep fans of 1980's teen horror interested. the rest of you be warned though: you will wonder if you dressed like that in 1987, and the answer is probably more hideous than anything which happens on screen. try to watch it as a free rental if possible so that if disappointed you aren't stuck with the damn thing: movies like this take up valuable shelf space that is often at a commodity these days, what with the world coming to an end & all ...