this movie starred a totally forgotten star from the 1930s, jack pearl (radio's "baron munchausen") as well as jimmy durante. however, 7-1/2 decades later, it's being billed as a three stooges film because they are the only ones in the film who the average person would recognize today. film fanatics will also recognize the wonderful edna may oliver as well as zazu pitts.<br /><br />as for the stooges, this is a film from there very early days--before mgm had any idea what to do with the team. at this point, they were known as "ted healy and his stooges" as healy was the front man. fortunately for the stooges, they soon left this nasty and rather untalented man (read up on him--you'll see what i mean) and the rest is history. within a year, they were making very successful shorts for columbia and executives at mgm were soon kicking themselves for losing the team. this sort of thing was a common occurrence at mgm, a great studio which had no idea what to do with comedy (such as the films of buster keaton, laurel and hardy, abbott and costello and others). in fact, up until they left for columbia, mgm put them in a wide variety of odd film roles--including acting with clark gable and joan crawford in dancing lady. and, oddly, in this film they didn't act as a team--they just did various supporting roles, such as larry playing the piano!<br /><br />this particular film begins with pearl and durante lost in the african jungle. when they are rescued and brought home, all sense of structure to the film falls apart and the film becomes almost like a variety show--punctuated by scenes with the leads here and there. as for pearl, i could really see why he never made a successful transition to films, as he has the personality of a slug (but slightly less welcome). as for durante, i never knew what the public saw in him--as least as far as his films are concerned--he was loud and...loud! he apparently took time off from helping mgm to ruin buster keaton's career to make this film. together, pearl and durante rely on lots of verbal humor(?) and vaudeville-style routines that tend to fall rather flat.<br /><br />in this film, the stooges they didn't yet have the right chemistry. seeing healy doing the job that moe did in their later films is odd. what they did in the film was pretty good, but because all the segments were short, they came on and off camera too quickly to allow them to really get into their routines. stooges fans might be very frustrated at this, though die-hard fans may want to see this so that they can complete their life-long goal of seeing everything stooge--even the rotten joe derita and joe besser films (oh, and did they got bad after the deaths of shemp and curly).<br /><br />overall, the film is rather dull and disappointing. however, there are a couple interesting things to look for in the mess. at about the 13 minute mark, you will see a brief scene where a tour guide on a bus is singing. look carefully, as this is walter brennan in a role you'd certainly never expect! another unusual thing to look for in the film is the "clean as a whistle" song starting at about 22 minutes into the film. this song and dance number is clearly an example of a so-called "pre-code" scene that never would have been allowed in films after 1934 (when the production code was strengthened). despite the word "clean" in the title, it's a very titillating number with naked women showing lots of flesh--enough to stimulate but not enough to really show anything! it's quite shocking when seen today, though such excesses were pretty common in the early 1930s. finally, at the 63 minute mark, see jimmy durante set race relations back a few decades. see the film, you'll see that i mean!