well, it turned out as i expected: visual overload but nothing else added to the original. what did surprise me however was that the storyline was fairly drastically changed compared to the 1968 flick. initially this awoke my interest, but what eventually surprised was that the new twists and turns (a) were apparently invented in order to present us with a typical hollywood-like product and (b) made the whole storyline improbable! the 1968 story was breathtakingly straightforward, and included no time-storms or any bogus of that sort: it just stated that when you come home after a long journey, things might have changed a bit. earth might have fallen in the hands of apes, for example. like many 'old' movies, it's main ingredient was suspense (hell, does anyone understand that word these days?). in this burton movie, an attempt has been made to turn the whole thing into an action movie, but at what cost? surely, the images are overwhelming, and a lot of time and money has been put into the design of a complete ape-culture (even ape-music!), but what's wrong?<br /><br />first, the suspension of disbelief is made very hard, because the apes have a lot of hollywood-human traits. i refer especially to ari and the slave-trader. these traits include emotional skills like irony, sarcasm, and an overtly displayed array of 'subtle' emotions. it makes you forget that the apes are apes, which is essential.<br /><br />second, the humans talk. of course, we can imagine that humans will never forget how to speak, but the fact that the apes had speech and the humans didn't made the ape/human role-switching very tangible and stressing in the 1968 version. the wound in the throat that charlton heston gets there is essential to his survival and his later regained speech essential to his uniqueness and the interest that dr. zira has in him (so, no need for things like human rights activists or ape-human love in order to explain things).<br /><br />third, the fact that they talk ads a great deal to the implausibility, but is a necessary twist in the new movie, since capt. davidson has to play the hollywood-let's-save-the-whole-world- and-have-a-good-ending-for-everyone- and-still-make-it-to-the-lounge-bar- for-a-cool-diet-coke character. oh my god, will they never learn? i new it from the start, when there was only one guy who got lost! they were in need of a hero! and then the script writers go on reasoning: we need one guy... so, why would one guy get lost... because he tries to save an ape from an electromagnetic storm... implausible! but it's necessary because it shows the audience that he respects apes! since, in these modern and politically correct times, we can't have a xenophobic ape-hater like charlton heston's 68 character loose on the screen: let's give them a bubblegum version!<br /><br />fourth, okay, the general twist of the original 'discovering the truth' of the 1968 film to the modern version (he finds that his own mother ship crashed on the planet ages ago and that their lab-apes developed their society, where heston simply discovered that just, somehow, the apes overtook the earth while he was away) is nicely done. the second, battle-part comes as an anti-climax. that's because this movie has added the first two planet of the apes movies in one plot. nice try, but the chill you feel when davidson and you discover that he's lost on the planet forever just washes out due to the uninteresting battle-part.<br /><br />fifth: the ending!!! for chrissakes, who came up with that?! (a) davidson crashes twice with his escape pod, which seems an unsteerable object, while the chimp manages to simply land gracefully? come on, who'd believe that? if the pods are really small space crafts (davidson simply flies off into space at the end) and not merely escape vessels, he might have managed a safe landing at least once, no? and what about that ending???? i mean, in the original film it was clear that everything took place on earth. but here: the whole movie takes place on a distant planet, and suddenly the same (there's a thade statue) ape culture is on earth??? how come? did the apes of the far planet evolve technologically, flew into the time storm and colonised earth before davidson's mission took off? why is thade worshiped? stupid stupid stupid.<br /><br />helena bonham carter is even adorable and beautiful as an ape, but i'd expected no less. i preferred her ape above estella warren as a human, but maybe i got some loose wire in my head. nevertheless, the only convincing apes were tim roth as thade (wonderful!) and ari's household ape (the ex-general, but i forgot his name).<br /><br />nonono, a lot of things could and should have been added/altered to the 1968 pic, but not the plot, at least not in that way. it was simple and clear and needed no additional explaining. it was nicely tongue-in cheek and caricatured. don't stylize everything...