if you're going to look after a child, make sure they don't live anywhere near a graveyard. especially if said kid has a habit of drawing gory pictures and disappears at night among the tombstones to see her 'friends'. but, our long haired heroine, oblivious to all the signs, shacks up with her family the nortons, which include a strict father and a dullard older brother who becomes a love interest for our budding babysitter. even more spooky than the zombie gang outside is the cast's tendency to talk even when their lips aren't moving, and for the words to not match the movement of their mouths. but enough of that.. domestic animals are being sacrificed, old ladies are having eyeballs torn out and the orchestra won't shut up during any scene, even the quiet ones. oh, and the editor is having a day off going by the way the film drones on.<br /><br />in fact, it would been better if everybody involved had taken a breather, smelt what they'd signed up for and gone awol. yes, i know it's hard to get into movies these days, but this sort of starter point is not one on your cv you'd want. if would be like a trainee farm labourer having a conviction for chicken molesting. featuring one of the worst lead performances ever by the shrill laurel barnett, and another almost equally as bad by the charisma-free child actress rosalie cole (the next dakota fanning she ain't) the film meanders on and on with nothing but padding until we get what passes for a climax.<br /><br />this involves five or six members of the undead barricading our utterly useless heroine in a shed, while her bit of rough fends off these ghouls with a plank of wood, a one shell shotgun and whatever he can lay his hands on. but back up a minute.. earlier on they were in the car, and they accidentally discovered that the creatures found the noise of the horn so repellent they shuffled off at the sound of it. so do they stay where they are safe? no of course not, they run off to this abandoned building in the middle of nowhere, so the bloke can prove what a hardnut he is the girl can act like she's having a nervous breakdown.<br /><br />finally, the film closes. it doesn't end, it just goes to a grinding halt. the main character wanders back to her vehicle covered in fake blood, as if nothing horrible had happened. but, my dear viewer, something horrible has happened. you have just sat through one of the most lamebrained, boring horror films you're ever likely to see, and lost 82 minutes of your life you'll never get back. just think.. years from now on your deathbed, what you'd trade an hour and 22 minutes for just to spend a bit of extra time with your family. sadly, it's already too late for me. don't you make the same mistake :( 2/10