a little girl lives with her father and brother in the middle of the countryside. this little girl rosalie has some psychotic tendencies as the movie opens with her feeding kittens to some kind of creatures in the cemetery, and she has recently lost her mother who went crazy but whilst alive enjoyed staying in the woods all night. the premise of the film has a new young lady coming to rosalie to take care of her. she is introduced to the evil of the woods while driving and, imagine the suspense here, experiences a huge blue barrel falling over the side of a cliff to somehow stop her car dead in its tracks. from there she walks to the nearest house and discovers mrs. whitfield who then goes into a whole lot of explanation about rosalie and her family. the earnestness exuded by the mrs. whitfield character has to be seen to be believed. well, the young lady meets up with the child and we soon learn that not only is she strange but everyone in the film is very bizarre as well. they all do share one thing in common which is none of them ever heard of an acting school. none of these people can act - as evidenced by the few vehicles any of them in the entire film appeared in before or since - and all of them look like they have little idea what is going on, pause to remember lines, and have all the conviction of a paper bag. the director plods through the material in a slow pace with this horrible piano music crescendoing here and there at things that are suppose to be scary. it takes us a bit before we get to a couple of murders by the creature friends, but by that time i didn't care. the murders are not convincing either, and truth be told the whole film looks like someone through it together on their friend's farm with the people and things on hand there. that all being said the ending does have some creepy aspects to it though we don't learn one darn thing about why rosalie is like this or more importantly who the creature with the cheap masks are. cheap doesn't even begin to describe the budget here with. it basically is a couple old farmhouses and some sheds at the end and of course the woods. someone lent the director a couple old cars too. no special effects of any kind and only the most minimal make-up. there are so many guffaws/ridiculous moments to list, but i will just list a few here that at the very least made me chuckle from the lack of aptitude from the creative powers involved: 1)watch the gardener's body well after he has been "slain". len comes in and sees him butchered and you can see his fat belly heave with life. 2)the dying scene at the end where the actress playing rosalie is killed. she looks like she is listening to directions and takes her sweet time dying considering the method. 3)how about the guy playing roaslie's father giving us a cranky poor man's andy griffith. the scene where he is laughing about boy scouts dying was a weird hoot. the child is indeed a very bad film and is very bad even for the standards of 70's cheese if you will. this isn't a b film but more like a z film with producer harry novak making some money on virtually nothing.