i was searching through hollywood video last night with a friend trying to find a good-looking horror movie to watch over the new year's weekend. as i was looking through the shelves, "severed" spotted my eye, and i grabbed it off the shelf and it looked like it might be a decent b-grade horror movie. the cover looked fairly good. the plot sounded semi-interesting. so i rented it. what a mistake. don't be fooled by the cover, which actually looks decent. i'm thinking that more money was spent on the cover artwork than the movie itself. the film follows two police detectives who are tracking down a voodoo-inspired, ritualistic serial killer called "the head hunter", who is decapitating victims left and right in some unnamed city (probably los angeles), and they become drawn into his world of ritualized murder.<br /><br />story sound somewhat good? well, it is, and this movie could've been halfway decent. but good god, it was bad! almost everything about it was laughable. the opening scene features some redheaded actress in a car trying to talk on this huge, outdated cell phone, and for whatever reason, she goes outside and talks to some guy. then, a shadow comes up behind them, hacks off his head, and the girl drops to the ground and starts crawling (for absolutely no reason) while trying to dial 911. sound ridiculous? yep, you bet it is. the entire movie looks like it was filmed on a vhs-quality camera, and i'm assuming it was. the acting was mostly awful, and the special effects were far from believable. and the scenes with the policemen on the phone were awful - the voice on the other line was echoing and it sounded like it was being recorded in someone's bathroom. everything about this movie was simply amateurish and tedious, and it didn't hold my interest for very long, and i often found myself bored and tired, mostly because of the bad acting and the horrible cinematography. the pacing was bad. everything was just bad.<br /><br />overall, "severed" is a failed attempt at what could have been a decent b-movie. the plot was good and i think if this film had been handled better and had a higher budget, it could've been alright. but this movie fell flat on it's face. if you're expecting something semi-decent, you'll be sorely disappointed. only recommended if you can tolerate d-grade horror flicks. otherwise, you'll probably want to stay away from this straight-to-video garbage. it had a little potential, but it was beyond a mess. 1/10.