if there's one thing that annoys me most in seeing a bad film, it's seeing it done by experienced film-makers who ought to know better. this "re-imagining" of planet of the apes could have used some imagination, to say nothing of essential elements of character development. nova, the girl in the original planet of the apes, was a better developed character than daena in this version, for all that she does not say a single word. one certainly expected a lot better from tim burton, a man who has hitherto combined an incredible visual imagination with intelligence, wit and humour, all of which were notably absent from this production.<br /><br />there were problems in basic plot development. the first big mistake was allowing the humans to talk. this was the fundamental difference between apes and men that made *all* the difference in the original film. even while he was mute, his ability to communicate was what marked out heston's taylor as being different from the other humans. in the current film, mark wahlberg encourages the (talking) human slaves to revolt, but there is no overpowering reason for them to have not revolted and reclaimed their emancipation already. they are dexterous tool-users and have the ability to communicate in order to form plans, something mute humans can't do. it needs no man to fall from the stars to save them. indeed, since he comes from a technological civilisation and finds himself in a pre-technology era without (at first) any gadgets to help him, it is wahlberg who ought to be at a disadvantage, not the humans who are used to living there.<br /><br />it was sad to see helena bonham carter working so hard to generate some kind of spark between herself and that unresponsive brick wall mark wahlberg. her best scenes were with the villainous tim roth.<br /><br />the humans were practically ignored until they were needed in the third act, at which point daena started showing some actual interest in davidson (wahlberg), and a young boy suddenly changed from part of the background to a feisty gung-ho freedom-fighter. this was poor character development. (estella warren, in particular, looked as if she would have been capable of a great deal more than she was given in the script). wahlberg's puzzlement at the end as to what these humans see in him was certainly shared by me, as he has scarcely interacted with the humans throughout.<br /><br />creating the apes: half a plus point and two minuses: ape make-up was excellent on the males, particularly michael clarke duncan who has incredibly expressive eyes (which was why he was so good in the green mile), and the makeup design allowed him to use them fully. but the ape females looked like nothing on earth, neither ape nor human. the minuses were the ape jumps which looked about as realistic as flash gordon's rocket: jumping apes looked as if they'd just been fired from a catapult, they had none of the long-limbed grace of genuine apes. secondly, the poor sound mixing - when the gorillas roar it is quite clearly dubbed from some animal, probably feline, making them sound ridiculous and unrealistic.<br /><br />in the original film, the various "human" things the apes do and say are handled as light relief ("i never knew an ape i didn't like." "human see, human do!"). here, the apes just talk matter-of-factly exactly as 21st century humans do, and there is no humour in it at all. the only genuinely original idea was ari writing with her feet.<br /><br />nothing made me cringe more than the "v-ger from star trek" moment near the end of the film. first of all, the apes had apparently been able to read roman lettering in the distant past, for them to know the name of the forbidden zone in its partly concealed form. secondly, the mysterious inscription giving the name is merely covered with sand which wahlberg just brushes away, something any ape could have done centuries ago. this moment was, for me, far worse than the much-maligned ending of the movie.<br /><br />things of that nature, however, are typical of most science fiction movies of today. back in the '60s and '70s, they generally didn't have the budget to make convincing futuristic sets, but they dealt with genuinely original themes and ideas which were truly science fictional. i'm thinking of 2001: a space odyssey, the 1967 planet of the apes, thx1138, soylent green, silent running and the 1972 solaris. the first planet of the apes even utilised the only scientifically valid and physically possible method of travelling forward in time. however, this film includes just about every bad science fiction clich'e going: space storms, anomalies and worm holes straight out of star trek; the planets of the solar system and their moons apparently all visible together as large globes (in reality from any one planet, all other bodies, even their own moons, are just points of light); a conventional rocket powered shuttle travelling from saturn to earth in a matter of minutes instead of years; two-thousand year old equipment firing up and fully working the minute the hero presses the button. to say nothing of a conveniently bulletproof internal glass door. in a contemporary setting, you'd have to explain *why* it was bullet proof, but because it's "science fiction" you don't have to!<br /><br />overall, burton's most disappointing film.