advertised by channel seven in australia as the "untold story", this miniseries undoes itself in the first five minutes by washing over the titular character's childhood and adolescence in less time than a good director will use to set up a single event. this cowardice and self-censorship for the fear of offending anyone permeates the series, and is ultimately responsible for its failure.<br /><br />robert carlyle puts in a valiant performance as the most hated man of the twentieth century, but he is hamstrung by two things. the lack of a decent dialogue coach on the series leaves his northern-uk heritage shining blindingly through his physical appearance, and the dialogue is at times truly abysmal. apparently, acknowledging the fact that hitler was raised in a catholic family is off limits, but insulting millions of vikings and their descendants by having carlyle spew the most ridiculous lines about valhalla is quite okay. well, here's a clue for the writers - any person familiar with viking mythology will tell you that valhalla is about the embodiment of honour and might in battle, two things that the nazis quickly eschewed in favour of rat cunning and backstabbing. until we can wake up to ourselves and realise that the reason hitler has never been excommunicated from the catholic church is because it would require the embarassing acknowledgement that he was once a member, we will never learn what this awful period of the world's history has to teach us.<br /><br />so now that we've managed to insult vikings and the citizens of scandinavian countries in this sham, you'd think the series would stop there, but it doesn't. stockard channing's listing in the opening credits was particularly eyebrow-raising, given that her voice is heard, and her face seen, for about thirty seconds at the most during the opening credits, making it patently transparent that more footage of hitler's early days were shot, but not included because of a typical nanny-state fear of offending someone. it is also quite ironic that the films or miniseries which give a far better insight into hilter's character do not feature him at all.<br /><br />until we learn to stop sugar-coating the truth and realise that the citizenry of germany was mostly unopposed to hitler's views, and not necessarily through ignorance, we will never learn to deal with the fact that subversions of democracy (yes, germany was a democracy pre-hitler) can occur anywhere, we are doomed. that's the one thing this mini-series got right in portraying. unfortunately, that element is lost in attempts to make hitler's religious beliefs appear those of a much more valiant people, and the inability to scratch past the surface in any part of the subject matter. david letterman's show had it pegged when they ran short satirical segments about the series. they really might as well have made a family sitcom with him as the star, that's how badly it was written.<br /><br />all in all, this politically correct farce of a bio-pic is worth no points, but i gave it two because robert carlyle definitely deserves better material than this, and he is about the only thing in it that works.