i'm in iraq right now doing a job that gives plenty of time for watching movies. we also have access to plenty of pirated movies, this gem came along with 11 other movies, and this is easily the worst i've seen in a long time. i've seen a few other reviews that claim this movie doesn't take itself too seriously, but really, i think that's a cover up for the fact that its horrible. it's not tongue in cheek, the writers really thought they were improving on the movie blade. this movie is just one notch above vampire assassin, which if you haven't seen, i recommend. at least that movie is so unbelievably bad that you'll laugh harder than you thought possible. this is right at that cusp of no redeeming qualities what so ever. from the bad acting, to clich'e visual (ie opening credits), to the adobe premier special effects. they couldn't even get blanks for the guns, which may have to do with where the movie was filmed, but if you're going to use effects, make them close to accurate. as for the cast, it seems like they just went to a tae bo class and picked up the first not to ugly chick that walked out. once again, like ron hall in vampire assassin, don't let stunt folk act, they can't. also, the comment about this being a "return of old vampire movies"...no, it's not. this is exactly what all new vampire movies are about. buffy the vampire slayer, blade, underworld, they're all about some super star fighting the vampires. this is the newest vampire genre, with bad blood, fake screams, and cheesy over acting. obviously anyone who wrote a good review about this is somehow connected to the movie, or friends of the cast. but what do i care, i paid 33 cents for it. anyway, to wrap this up, someone in their first semester of film school decided to make a movie, i give them credit because it's better than i could do. of course i also know i can't make movies so i don't try. i do know how to watch movies though. i work 12 hour nights, 6 days a week, i've seen several thousand in the year i've been out here and this was so bad that half way through i was hoping for a mortar attack.