karen(bobbie phillips)mentions, after one of her kids gets out of hand with his lame annoying jokes, that she'll never survive this trip..boy, is she ever on the money. karen is a school teacher taking her group of kids from the shepley college of historical studies to the butt ugly locale of a run-down manor in the major dung-heap of ireland..surely there are places in this country more appeasing to the senses than this?! the caretaker of the manor, gary(simon peacock)warns karen and her students to stay on the path and not to stray into the forest. there's a myth regarding the sawney bean clan, a ritualistic druid cannibalistic inbred family celebrate samhain(the end of summer, october 31st)"feast of the dead" where sacrifices are needed to appease the spirits. gary is supposedly clairvoyant, his cousin pandora(ginger lynn allen)tells us, because he was born on samhain. funny, because he sure doesn't see outcomes well or even give advice accurately. nearly everyone dies(..even those who never stray from the path)and he doesn't even see his own gruesome fate. what this monster we hear breathing is a victim of way too much inbreeding..it's face resembles a malformed mushroom and it looks like a hideous reject from a mad max picture. it doesn't take long before the "evil breeder" is killing everyone. paul(howard rosenstein)is karen's love interest who made the wrong decision coming to ireland without his girlfriend's prior knowledge.<br /><br />horrible formula slasher doesn't stray from the norm. it's minuscule budget shows loudly and the characters are assembly line clich'es churned out yet again to be slaughtered in the usual gory ways. most of the violence flashes across the screen quickly with not much dwelling on the breeder's acts of death towards his victims. lots of guts get pulled out during the fast edit cuts as one scene whisks to another. seeing gillian leigh's gorgeous naked body for a moment or two isn't incentive enough to recommend it. phil price has the really irritating trickster character, steve, often shedding bad jokes..how he is able to get leigh's barbara naked in the shower for some action is anyone's guess because i have no reason why he'd stand a chance with such a hottie. brandi-ann milbrant has the fortunate role of shae, the quiet virgin smart girl(who is also quite hot)who we know will be the one chosen by the screenplay to survive. jenna jameson drops by long enough to get her heart cut out of her chest(at least we see her breasts momentarily before her chest is opened up)with a few minor lines about two missing friends she's looking for. the film's main problem is that the story and character development grinds to a halt because it's realized that none of them are at all interesting so director christian viel just lets loose his monster to run rampant causing carnage, obliterating an entire cast almost in one fail swoop within ten minutes. oh, and richard grieco has a minor opening cameo as a victim who strayed off the path to tent camp with his chick.