first this deserves about 5 stars due to acting (some which would give me a better subjective opinion and not an objective one as it should by giving this one, well deserved, star) but then i know that those facts are used for the actor(s) names to increase the rating of something like this...<br /><br />i do have a problem with such productions; yet another attempt (just like "untraceable") of a systematic propagandistic feature promoting government intrusion on your rights( how interesting that it comes at a moment when ips providers trying to "preferentiate" = censor information, and the americans and canadians are fighting against that at this very moments). this time is not by labeling torrent file transfers as evil ( that one was intended to remind you of such feeling whenever you transfer data on the net), but by literally attempting in creating a sexual frustrated population as a whole. seems like fear promotion is hollywood's norm this days, especially when coming to thrillers which is the most "on demand" motion picture genre for past 2 decades or so = most viewed, best way to try influence the society as a whole. such levels of violence are depicted in this 2 features of morally and "ethical" people, that it gives a new much needed meaning to "anti-heroes" figures. make no mistake , this is not "dexter" which was meant to be high-quality entertainment.stop selling "fear" please, the world would be a better place without it and the dollars made of it.<br /><br />the opening scene and generally the first 10 minutes really give a frightful picture of an erroll babbage that is clearlly suffering of sexual frustration. the way he handles the black male is very disturbing if not outright racist(for sure a "cliche" at least) ( in real life someone would probably get a beating for it, you will see what i mean). the second scene ( with claire danes's character present) is even more extreme. at that point i realized, in my opinion that erroll babbage is a very dangerous individual to people around him.how many people, that have seen or will see this movie, have never been "hold down"(regarding both sexes) out of self, common gratification!?.typically the movie gives an extreme criminal case(that unfortunately did, is and will likely happen again sometime , somewhere) but fingers everyone else indirectly as well as "you could become that", etc. anyone that is familiar with sigmund freud and jung will know very well that sexuality is not something to be judged let alone "asses" , by such fanatical "hero" here. safe sex in its many forms is healthy and not some evil that apparently richard gere character is obsessed with , on his way for some sexual "crusade". have we not learned anything from the abundant recent scandals involving priests and young boys!? or for how long an american teenager can see extreme violence on "pg-13" but he can not even see a woman breast until "r-18"!?!?( yet the industry targets them with this very same sexual perversions like "american pie" series for example).raise the kids tester-one levels but frustrate them and drive them underground in developing fetishes to unhealthy extremes!? all sexual activities(upon mutual acceptance) integrates individuals better then some "rightous" nut-case, that blames his misfortunes and shortcomings on "the lives of others"( a new german movie that would work great in comparing this 2 distinct and world apart features on the very same subject).here, like in that movie, you will probably appreciate the actors for well portraying the opposite of what they should have been.<br /><br />i am very disappointed with richard gere especially after the recent " hunting party", a feature where he really shines and about a more realistic "hero"( after real facts as well).but then it just reminds me that all those people are only actors that get paid to play someone's political and social agenda. "the flock" and "untraceable" 2 heads of the same hidden beast)))it just reminds you, if know anyone with similar views on the subject as a whole, as erroll babbage has those here, to stay clear of them for their own safety.they would kill my family faster then any 0.00001 chances of paul jerrod in anyone's life would...<br /><br />in the end i recommend this to anyone thinking negative here about my "assesment" of this particular movie ( and "untraceable" actually), so you can likely have similar thoughts as i did. nothing sweeter then a propagandistic movie shooting itself in the "foot".))))for once i agree with the rating, this is not a feature for teenagers or kids; simply because at best would confuse them even more then the "common" belief of "money+fame+fashion" and how that relates to sexuality. "scream" series and movies as such at least have a defined entertainment value(even if a dumb one in my opinion). but this one is just another "trust me i know what is good for you" deeply (not so well done i might add) subliminal messages.