i used to review videos for joe bob briggs' legendary "we are the weird" newsletter. i saw a lot of stinkers, but this by far was the worst, and the years have not been kind - it remains the most indecent crime against cinema i have ever witnessed. don't get me wrong - caged terror is nominally more technically competent than, say, monster-a-go-go or the guy from harlem or something of that ilk. what solidifies its claim as worst movie of all time for me is its unique blend of bare proficiency with crippling pretension. is it a vietnam commentary? an ecological protest? an incitement to race riot? a study of man's inhumanity to man? a novel exercise in padding nature footage out to (nearly) feature length? in short: a hep young urban professional (possibly the most loathesome screen character ever) somehow seduces a nubile asian-american associate into camping in the woods with him. after brow-beating her with quasi-philosophical clap for the better part of an hour, they run across two wandering veterans, the unforgettable jarvis (a righteous brother) and the troubadour (guitar-toting manson family reject). hey, a plot twist! tension! action! suspense! well, no, just a climactic getting-locked-in-a-makeshift-wire-chicken-coop-and-lightly-belittled scene. the victim in question stares listlessly at the captors and mutters, "no... no... please... don't..." meanwhile, jarvis addresses the troubadour as "trouby" once every two minutes, bringing to mind nothing so much as the alien star of juan picquer's pod people. that's about all that happens in caged terror, and such a synopsis perhaps makes it seem almost tolerable. but trust me, i've seen thousands of movies in my life, and this one has remained, for the past eight years since i first saw it, the absolute worst. (i pop it in the old vcr once every two years or so just to reassure myself, and reassure myself i certainly do.) i think the element which makes caged terror so particularly hateful is this: very little happens, and although what little does happen happens quite poorly and quite slowly, what truly makes it compulsively unwatchable is the suffocating sense that the filmmakers really, really want to shove some kind of message down your throat. but because caged terror is so incompetent and ineffectual, what was intended as a civics lesson becomes a crash course in intense viewing discomfort. this film is 75 minutes long and feels like three and a half hours. it's terrible, truly truly terrible. folks, trust me, i saw ghosts that still walk and this one is worse. go see it! you'll thank me. and curse me. just for the record, my favorite line: (in caged terror but perhaps ever) "yeah, well, you probably think the song of solomon was an allegory for christ's love for the church...!" (note: must be delivered in a tone of concerted condecension.)