i never understood why some people dislike bollywood films: they've got charismatic actors, great dance numbers, and heightened emotion--what's not to like? what i didn't realize was that i had only seen the upper-crust of bollywood. then i watched "garam masala". i could tell from the first scene that this was not a movie i was going to like (the film opens with a montage of the two leads driving around a city and apparently happening serendipitously on a series of photo setups populated with gyrating models), but i kept hoping things would improve. sadly, they didn't. the main problem is that the two protagonists, mac & sam, are completely unsympathetic. they spend the entire movie lying to women--and lying brutally- -in order to get them into bed, and the audience is supposed to find this funny, and be charmed. the boys are unscrupulous and inept, and not in a lovable way. mac even goes so far as to have one of the women drugged in order to keep her from discovering his cheating. the script is extremely poor, with repetitive scenes, setups that never lead to anything, and illogical actions and statements by the characters. in fact, the characters are never really developed at all. the males are boorish, greedy jerks, and the women merely interchangeably beautiful. if you go by this movie, you would think that "air hostesses" are pretty easy to pass from man to man. in reality, betrayal is not so humorous. <br /><br />the only bright spots i found in the movie were one dance number that had brilliant sets, and a few slapsticky moments involving the french-farce, door-slamming aspects of the story. but bollywood dancing is better enjoyed in movies choreographed by farah khan, and for slapstick you might as well just go straight to the silent comedies of buster keaton and harold lloyd, who seem to have influenced writer/director priyadarshan not a little. priyadarshan also takes false credit for inventing the story: the basic premise of the plot is stolen from the 1960 play "boeing boeing." the original author of that work, marc camoletti, is credited nowhere. at least priyadarshan changed the title for this remake, rather than brazenly using the original without giving credit, as he did in his 1985 version of this same tale. (according to imdb's credits list.)