so on the chills network on cable they are having "vampire month", i'm such a dork, but i love vampires. so after a few duds that they showed i was pretty disappointed, but then i noticed sleepwalkers was written by stephen king. so i decided to go ahead and check it out, well much to my surprise, this movie was really bad. most stephen king films are entertaining and some are very scary. while sleepwalkers was bad, it was a beautiful kind of bad. i had a good time laughing at this movie and just taking it for what it was. i've never read sleepwalkers, from what i understand this is the only real vampire story by king, so i can't really compare book to film. i don't know if it was just my tv, but sleepwalkers looked like it was made for tv. the special effects were corny and the story was a bit far fetched, even if it is fantasy, it had a lot of problems. <br /><br />charles brady and his mother mary are vampires who feed off the life force of virgin women. they are considerably more resilient than humans and have powers of both telekinesis and illusion. their one weakness is cats, who are not only able to see through their illusions but whose claws are capable of inflicting severe to fatal wounds upon them. they also maintain an incestuous relationship. charles and mary have taken up residence in a small indiana town. charles attends the local high school, and there he meets tanya robertson in his creative writing class. tanya does not suspect the real reason why charles wants her so much; to take her life force for his mother, who is starving. at first, it seems that charles has fallen in love with tanya. on their first date, however, a picnic at the nearby cemetery, charles attempts to drain the life force from tanya while kissing her. as it happens, deputy sheriff andy simpson who had earlier tried to pull charles over for speeding, drives by the cemetery and notices charles' car. when tanya runs to him for help, charles tracks andy down and kills him. when charles then turns to resume his life force-depleting make out session with tanya, the deputy's cat, clovis, rises to the occasion and nearly kills charles by scratching him in the face and chest. mortally wounded by clovis, charles staggers back home to mary. mary then seeks vengeance on tanya's family.<br /><br />so to sum this movie up basically you should expect the cheese to overflow. the scene where charles attacks tanya for the first time is very clich'e and you almost vote for charles to win just because tanya is one of the dumbest female leads in horror movies. then you gotta love the scene where mary has a gun and shoots it at a cop car and somehow the whole thing explodes, god bless hollywood explosions and exaggerations. i'm taking the movie for what it is, it's just so deliciously bad that it turns into a dark comedy for me that i could just enjoy making fun of. i'm not sure if this is what stephen king wanted to see for his story, but he does have his typical cameo in the film. so my suggestion if you watch this movie, just take it for what it is and don't over think it, it's mindless entertainment with corny effects, bad casting, a silly story and enough cats to make the crazy cat lady from the simpson's say "wow, that's a lot of cats".<br /><br />4/10