preposterous sequel stretches credibility to a great degree as diabolical sociopath stanley kaldwell returns this time infiltrating the movie production of the novel he wrote for the garden drownings, assuming the identity of a second unit director he murdered.<br /><br />film pokes gleeful fun at hollywood, with a tongue-in-cheek script taking shots at tyrannical directors who sleep with their actresses(..looking for a way up the ladder)and dislike anyone challenging them for complete spotlight. brian krause, who i thought was dreadful, overacting to the point where the satire felt incredibly forced, portrays the loud, temperamental director who doesn't like the fact that his second unit director and screenplay writer, alison(..played by dahlia salem)seem to be taking over the production. andrew moxham is paul parsons, who is the brother of a victim from the first film. the film's dark humor this time takes the idea of a serial killer actually operating as director of a movie set and exploits it for all it's worth. nelson again ably slides back into his psycho role without any difficulty, with stanley as clever as ever, using his brains to commandeer a film production, killing whoever he has to in order to maintain full control of his work, letting no one stand in his way..that is until alison realizes who stanley really is. alison is the type of ambitious writer who wants to capture the essence of her subject..what motivated stanley to kill, why would he do such a thing, and what led such a man down this dark path? the humor of alison actually working with that very man is also part of the satire at the heart of this dark comedy thriller. of course, you get the inevitable showdown between alison and stanley, with a really ridiculous, unbelievable conclusion regarding the killer's fate(..quite a hard pill to swallow). unlike the first film, which was photographed with sophisticated polish, director po-chih leong uses unnecessary techniques which are not needed(..such as shooting an all kinds of weird angles, slow-motion in a sepia color, and several instances which are captured on video)and rather annoy instead of impress. this sequel, to me, just wasn't on target as much as the original, with a lot of the humor less effective and more obvious.