need a lesson in pure, abject failure?? look no further than "wizards of the lost kingdom", an abysmal, dirt-poor, disgrace of a flick. as we all know, decent moovies tend to sprout horrible, horrible offspring: "halloween" begat many, many bad 80's slasher flicks; "mad max" begat many, many bad 80's "futuristic wasteland fantasy" flicks; and "conan the barbarian" begat a whole slew of terrible, horrible, incredibly bad 80's sword-and-sorcery flicks. "wizards of the lost kingdom" scrapes the bottom of that 80's barrel, in a way that's truly insulting to barrels. a young runt named simon recaptured his "good kingdom" from an evil sorcerer with the help of a mangy rug, a garden gnome, a topless bimbo mermaid, and a tired-looking, pudgy bo svenson. svenson("north dallas forty", "inglorious bastards", "delta force"), a long-time b-moovie muscleman, looks barely able to swing his aluminum foil sword. however, he manages to defeat the forces of evil, which consist of the evil sorcerer, "shurka", and his army of badly costumed monsters, giants, and midgets. at one point, a paper mache bat on a string attacks, but is eaten by a 1/2 hidden sock puppet, pitifully presented as some sort of dragon. the beginning of the film consists of what can only politely be described as bits of scenes scooped up from the cutting-room floor of udder bad moovies, stitched together in the vain hope of setting the scene for the film, and over-earnestly narrated by some guy who never appears again. words cannot properly convey the jaw-dropping cheapness of this film; the producers probably spent moore moolah feeding svenson's ever expanding gullet than on the cheesy fx of this flick. and we're talkin' brie here, folks... :=8p director hector olivera("barbarian queen") presents this mish-mash in a hopelessly confused, confuddled, and cliched manner, destroying any possible hint of clear, linear storytelling. the acting is dreadful, the production levels below shoe-string, and the plot is one tired cliche after another paraded before our weary eyes. that they actually made a sequel(!!!) makes the moocow's brain whirl. james horner's("braveheart", "titanic","the rock") cheesy moosic from "battle beyond the stars" was lifted, screaming and kicking, and mercilessly grafted onto this turkey - bet this one doesn't pop up on his resume. folks, you gotta see this to believe it. the moocow says as a cheapo rent when there is nothing else to watch, well, it's moore fun than watching dust bunnies mate. barely. :=8p