i haven't seen "henry fool", but after watching "fay grim" i'm not sure i want to. maybe hartley aims to be the "anti-thriller" director---he sure succeeded with this yawner. based on the official description---woman discovers that her dead husband's manuscript contains material that could pose a threat to national security---i expected a taut geopolitical drama. instead i got flimsy structure, goofy dialog, flabby characterizations, a convoluted plot, and a "tone" that shifts so often it suggests that hartley changed the script according to his mood at any given time. i can hang for a long time with a frustrating, hard-to-follow plot (e.g. "duplicity") because i figure that the loose ends eventually will come together. even when they don't, or they do but they leave lingering questions (e.g. "duplicity"), sharp writing and acting can hold one's interest. but half-way through "fay grim" i reached a deadly realization---i didn't know what was going on, and i didn't care. too bad, because i really like parker posey, reduced here to working with an absurd part that asked her to morph from indifferent, estranged wife and indifferent, clueless mother to tough, shrewd international "player" capable of psychological mano a mano with terrorists. there's also bad casting. jeff goldblum can be very good, but he's not capable of overcoming miscasting as a cia operative. he looks almost as uncomfortable in the role as i was watching him in it. his cia sidekick is worse; he looks like a refugee from the quarterfinals of "american idol" (are there really young cia agents with big licks of hair rakishly draped over their foreheads?). then there's the sticky question of the characters' ages. goldblum was 54 when he made "fay grim"; thomas jay ryan, who plays "henry fool", was 44. neither was made to look or seem older than their actual ages. yet, a key point in the story is that they served as cia agents in nicaragua "back in the '70s." goldblum's character would've been in his 20s then; henry fool would've been a teenager. was hartley being "quirky" or lazy? the problems are too numerous to list...