i thought "what's new scooby-doo" was pretty bad (yes, i'm sorry to say i didn't like it), since hanna-barbera didn't produce it and it took a drastic step away from the old series. when i heard "shaggy and scooby-doo get a clue" was in the works, i thought it could be better. but when i saw a pic of how scooby and shaggy were going to appear, i knew this show was going to be bad, if not worse. i watched a few episodes, and believe me, it is just yet another "teen titans" or "loonatics unleashed"-wannabe. no longer are scooby and shaggy going against people wearing masks of cool, creepy monsters that rob banks. now they are going after a typical super-villain whom wants to destroy the world. shaggy and scooby-doo have become more brave, too. also, since shaggy is not going to be a vegetarian in this series, casey kasem (whom actually is a vegetarian), the original voice of shaggy, will not voice shaggy. he will only voice shaggy if he doesn't eat meat, and that was just a stupid corporate-done change to update the franchise, as if the internet jokes weren't enough. so scott menville (whom previously voiced red herring on "a pup named scooby-doo") voices shaggy here. believe me, the voice is really bad! it makes shaggy sound like a squeaky 10-year-old, and i must agree the voice definitely fits his new ugly look. however, kasem does voice shaggy's uncle albert, which is a sort of good thing. scooby-doo, on the other hand, does not look that well. he seems to have been designed to look more like the cgi scooby-doo from the live-action movies. also, scooby's frank welker voice (need i mention brain the dog again?) still hasn't improved. robi, the robotic butler, is practically worse than scrappy-doo! he tries to be funny and does "comical" impressions and gives safety tips ("remember kids, don't stand under trees during a thunderstorm!"), but it just doesn't fit into a scooby-doo cartoon. again, the hanna-barbera sound effects are rarely used here. however, on one episode, "lightning strikes twice," they use the "castle thunder" thunderclaps during it, almost extensively! (although they do still use the newly-recorded thunder sound effects, too.) scooby-doo hasn't use "castle thunder" sound effects since 1991. but my question is, why use "castle thunder" on "shaggy and scooby-doo get a clue," while not use it on the direct-to-video movies or even on "what's new scooby-doo!" (two episodes of wnsd used it, and it wasn't enough, unfortunately.) if wnsd and the dtv movies used it, then they might be better than this crappy cartoon. the day this show premiered, i watched the first episode, and it was so bad i turned it off after only five minutes! to get my mind off of this poor show, i rented "scooby-doo, pirates ahoy!" which came out around the same time. and you know what? the "pirates ahoy" movie was actually better than "shaggy and scooby-doo get a clue" (and even better than "what's new, scooby-doo!") and it looks like the new designs that the characters have isn't permanent to the franchise. the direct-to-video movies coming out while this show is being made use the regular character designs, thankfully. but, whether you loved or hated "what's new scooby-doo," i don't recommend it. but if you hate the old series, then you'll love it! (oh god, i hope the old scooby-doo cartoon stay better than this new $#*%!) anyways, like wnsd, a really bad addition to the scooby canon.