darcy and her young daughter pamela are heading out to the country where her mum's boyfriend peter left his doctor's position in the city to become a writer and fix up a bed and breakfast inn. although this inn has a terrible past and pamela learns from one the girl's who lives in the town that a deformed witch once reside in that house. they called her the 'tooth fairy' as she would kill kids after getting their last baby tooth. this work on the inn, has awoken the 'tooth fairy'. now she has her sights on pamela and her last baby tooth, but if any gets in the way they face the same fate that awaits pamela.<br /><br />this flick's old folk myth of the 'tooth fairy' doesn't paint her in a very generous way, as you would believe when you were a child. don't they just love turning happy childhood memories into nightmares! another one which did fall into the same category was "darkness falls (2003)". i can't compare how similar they are in the premises, because i haven't seen the latter, but i mostly read they have basically share the same idea. for a little straight to dvd film, this dtv effort looks good and has some promising images surrounding the senseless and traditionally by the book plot device. low expectations are needed, as i wouldn't class it as an success, but i found it be to marginally entertaining.<br /><br />cory strode and cookie rae brown's story or background for this 'tooth fairy' character is completely bare with it leaning more towards a slasher vehicle than anything really supernatural. silly is a good way to describe what's happening in this poorly scripted story, but it never really feels like a fairytale horror. the dialogues can seem rather redundant and morally hounded. while the acting is simply sub-par with the bland characters they have to work off, but director chuck bowman offers up some inventive blood splatter and terribly nasty jolts. this kinda makes up for the lack of suspense, the zero scares and generic tone. his direction is reasonably earnest and visually able, where he gets some atmospheric lighting contrasting well with its slick photography. the promising opening scene is creepily effective. his pacing can slow up in parts and there's the odd and unnecessary slow-motion scene put in, but nonetheless it never gets too stodgy with something active occurring which made sure that i wasn't bored.<br /><br />the make-up special effects provided the goods, as there's enough repulsive gruel and the tooth fairy's appearance is especially gooey. the figure of the tooth fairy can look threatening in its black robe, bubbling make-up and swift movements. being on location helps carve out a more natural feel and can get atmospherically rich in its sense of eeriness. child actors can be incredibly annoying, but nicole mu~noz was decent in her part. lochlyn munro and chandra west are somewhat solid, but can be a little too causal in their performances as peter and darcey. the radiantly gorgeous carrie anne fleming is one of their lodgers. p.j soles shows up in small part as a superstitious neighbour who tries to warn them about the evil that lurks at the inn.<br /><br />i thought it was a okay time-waster that has a sound concept, which just isn't fleshed out enough and the execution is pretty textbook stuff. watchable nonsense, but at the same time extremely forgettable.