first off, i would like to point out that the reason why i gave this movie 1 star out of 10 is because there is no option to give it no stars! it really is that bad! i was never eager to see this film after i saw the ads for it, i ended up seeing it only by chance because some friends of mine had tickets and had one spare so i tagged along. before seeing it i had a fairly good idea that it wouldn't be genius - the premise seemed far too silly and stupid for anything good to come out of it, but at the back of my mind i was thinking "but there must be something good about it for uma thurman and luke wilson do to the film..." not that i think either of them are particularly terrific but they are big-named stars who would normally only do films that would enhance their reputations. however, about 10-20 minutes into the feature i realized that the movie was probably worse than i had at first anticipated. i was shocked at how terrible the script was. it really gave the actors nothing to work with, so much so that they really looked like they didn't know what they were doing (especially luke wilson). the story was completely predictable - if you've seen the ad then you've pretty much seen the movie! and there was nothing original about it - it pretty much borrows from every 'super-hero' story that has ever been which would be acceptable had the film been set up as a satire of that genre, but alas it wasn't. the direction seemed to be of realism. i got the feeling that the director wanted the film to feel completely realistic and not satire at all, and yet there were some moments in the film that were so unbelievably unrealistic that it would have worked if it were a satire. at one moment in the movie two of the characters seem to die and one of the surviving characters has a line like "oh well, she's dead...time to move on" and he says it in such a droll voice that it completely didn't make any sense. i found myself checking my watch after about 40 minutes to see how much longer i would have to sit through it. and then it struck me...i began to think "i wonder if the studio have made this picture as a test to see if they can make the worst possible movie ever made, and still pull a large audience..." i couldn't think of any other reason why this film would be made. for movies to be made these days, the script goes to a massive screening process and very very few scripts actually make it to the production stage...i can't comprehend how this one got past the first draft stage... by the end, and exceedingly, dumb-founding-ly stupid climax, i was laughing heartily - just not at what the film-makers wanted me to laugh at, but instead at how ridiculous and stupid the movie was. thank god i didn't have to pay money to see it...because that would have really annoyed me!!! oh, and could i just add, that of the two wilson brothers, i have always preferred luke because i think he is a better, more versatile actor...but if he wants to step even further into owen's shadow then this is exactly the way to do it...i doubt that he will get many more job offers after this crappy waste of 2 hours!!! and remember, it only got a generous 1/10 because i couldn't select 0!