it's easy to see how this below-average screenplay got by in the early sales-pitch meetings at regency films (and later with fox): cross the superhero genre with a comedic take on "fatal attraction"...voil`a! i don't know how on earth a talented director like ivan reitman got involved, unless the pay was just too tempting. a dateless employee at an architectural design firm in n.y.c. meets a girl on the subway and asks her out; despite the fact she's distracted and unpleasant, he eventually gets her into bed--only to find out later she's the big apple's resident superhero, g-girl. this distaff superman, with powers bestowed upon her by a fallen meteorite, isn't a fantasy heroine, however...screenwriter don payne has conceived her as a needy, possessive, vindictive bitch (he telegraphs this to us from miles away, though uma thurman still plays the role for sassy laughs). this is the kind of worthless movie that can't let an insult slip by. our introduction to leading man luke wilson, talking with rainn wilson on the train, is accompanied by a sour dig at gays (it prods at us to be assured these two buddies are strictly ladies' men). after being approached by g-girl's nemesis, who wants to zap her powers, wilson is told this will make her just an ordinary woman scorned...and isn't that better after all? thurman's early performances in films like "henry & june" and "jennifer 8" showcased an intelligent woman with angular grace and hypnotic poise; her films with quentin tarantino helped expose her sinewy hardness and intensity, but that came at a price (the actress has seemingly lost her graceful touch). the picture is exceedingly well-produced and shot, with expensive-seeming special effects, yet nobody bothered to find the humor in this scenario. it's pushy, leering, ugly, and badly-cast. bloated, frozen-faced wilson can't tell any of his co-workers that he's dating g-girl because she made him swear he'd rather have a chainsaw stuck up his rectum. i wonder if writer payne actually thought that was hilarious...or, indeed, if anyone involved did? * from ****