matt saunders (luke wilson) thinks he has found the perfect woman in jenny johnson (uma thurman), who seems like a quiet but pretty woman, though he soon learns that she's needy and possessive, oh, and she's also the superhero g-girl, though you wouldn't know it from the things she does to matt after he freaks out and breaks up with her.<br /><br />a promising premise is ruined by a mediocre execution. my super ex-girlfriend is still an enjoyable comedy however it relies too much on cheap sex jokes and it ends up being a forgettable experience. what went wrong? the cast and the director could not overcome the weakness of the script and i didn't like the way they played it out. i was expecting the guy to be a jerk and it could have been a female fantasy revenge film. however, they made the guy likable and they made the superhero a psycho. it just wasn't very fresh and after about forty minutes, the film wore out it's welcome. sure, there were a few funny lines however the weak middle and horrible ending kept it from really breaking out.<br /><br />director ivan reitman has lost his touch. after a successful run in the eighties and early nineties, he started making crap like evolution and father's day. i wouldn't say my super ex-girlfriend is a complete bust but i don't give him credit for any of the quality the movie holds, which isn't too much. don payne did an awful job with the screenplay. the majority of the jokes were lame and most of the supporting characters were just one-note. he also kept reusing a lot of the same jokes making the thing really tedious at times.<br /><br />a few of the actors were good enough to save the film. uma thurman was great as g-girl and she had many funny lines. luke wilson was a bit pale and not very interesting. i don't think he makes for an appealing leading man and he's better in supporting roles like in the family stone. anna faris was just doing her "scary movie" routine and it's getting a little old. she needs a challenge or at least some better scripts. wanda sykes is either hit or miss for me. she was great in monster-in-law and she was bad in clerks 2. here, she is just annoying and doesn't bring anything to the movie. eddie izzard was alright, nothing special. rainn wilson was just annoying and not funny. overall, i was disappointed with the movie. it wasn't awful yet it had so much potential and the final result was just so average. rating 5/10