when setting out this film, director mary harron seemingly had the goal of clearly documenting the progress of bettie page's career, from early modelling days to leaving modelling to go back home after the senate hearings on juvenile delinquency and her religious rediscovery in the 50s, and so intent is she to get all of these facts on screen in the time allowed she seems to have missed out on taking any time to explain anything in depth.<br /><br />when you think of someone who had page's career you'd think that there would be plenty to discuss, her reasons, decisions, life event, personal traumas, but harron avoids any kind of personal exploration of the character. in the first fifteen minutes or so of the film there are brief hints of child abuse, domestic violence and a gang rape, but these are all rushed past and then never referred to again. you get the impression that harron and guinevere turner (co-writer) wanted to gloss over anything that wasn't glamorous and flattering. you go into this film expecting to gain an insight into who the person behind the posters was, but all you are given is a list of things that she did and recreations of some of her most famous photo shoots.<br /><br />all in all the film really frustrates you as you watch, desperately waiting for some extra layer to reveal itself. how did she balance her religion with her job? what made this young tennessee girl move from modelling into bondage photography. the film simply shows her going to another modelling agency and putting on whatever she's told, but surely it would have involved some shock and deliberation, this was after all the 50s.<br /><br />it seems to me that harron is trying to make a point about how tame all this is by today's standards (page never took any photos of explicit sexual actions) and how the reaction some gave this kind of thing was really overzealous and although this is true, she never actually makes it seem sordid in the eyes of others. today we look at a young girl posing topless and think nothing off it, but we should have got some sort of feeling about how shocking it would have been to a contemporary audience. this woman was a central part of a senate hearing on juvenile delinquency, but no one is ever really shown as shocked.<br /><br />basically i left this film just thinking how tame it was. harron and turner have managed to avoid anything that might be unpleasant to a viewer. they come across as two lifelong fans of miss page and are desperate to make sure that nothing, absolutely nothing, could possibly put a bad light on their heroine, and have therefore avoided any in depth probing into who she really was. (before and after her career there are reports of her violent nature and mental problems) and all that's left is the string of events that made up her career, without any substance whatsoever behind it.