this film was choppy, incoherent and contrived. it was also an extremely mean-spirited portrayal of women. i rented it because it was listed as a comedy (that's a stretch), and because the cover said andie mcdowell was acting up a storm in it. she wasn't. i'm a gal, i watched this film with two guys, and we spent an hour afterwards exclaiming over how bad it was.<br /><br />warning: plot summary below! rampant spoilers!<br /><br />the movie starts out with a fairly hackneyed plot about an older woman who takes up with a younger man, to the severe disapproval of her two jealous single girlfriends. they want her to marry a boring guy their own age who is kind of in love with her. but she's so happy with her oversexed puppy that you're rooting for them to stick it out, and sure enough, she decides to marry the guy. but her harpy girlfriend, aided by the wishy-washy one, sets up a plot to trick our heroine into thinking the guy is cheating on her. it works. she has a fight with him, he runs out of the house and is crushed by a truck (remember the movie's title?) so now he's dead, two-thirds of the way through the film. and although our heroine is a school headmistress who spends her time watching over girls, she apparently forgot to use birth control and is pregnant.<br /><br />she's already broken off relations with her girlfriends, because they were so unsupportive. alone and pitiful, she decides to marry the boring guy. did i mention that the boring guy who kind of loves her is a minister? she had asked him to marry her to the young guy (nice, huh?), but now she tells him she'll marry him, and apparently he has no objections to being dicked around in this fashion. but her girlfriends rescue her at the altar and take her home, where they not-quite-confess that they were mostly responsible for the love of her life getting smushed. she has the kid. in the final scene, they leave it in a crib inside her house while they go out on the porch to drink, smoke and be smug. i kid you not, it's that bad. i left out the part about the cancer red-herring and the harpy's ridiculous lesbian moment.