just in time to capitalize on the long-awaited movie version of "dreamgirls" is the dvd release of this semi-forgotten 1976 musical melodrama that also takes the rise of the supremes as its inspiration. released five years before the broadway opening of "dreamgirls" and partially set in the same period, it has a predominantly black cast and a story revolving around an up-and-coming girl group, and that's where the resemblance basically ends. written by joel schumacher well before he became a big-league director of mainstream studio product ("batman forever", "the phantom of the opera"), this movie seems grittier on the surface. true to form, however, schumacher weakens the storyline and character development by injecting an abundance of clich'es and eye-rolling one-liners. with little affinity for staging musical numbers, sam o'steen, a highly regarded film editor but neophyte director, helms the production like a low-budget tv-movie with a frustratingly episodic structure.<br /><br />the story follows three harlem sisters - sexy sister, self-righteous delores and sweet sparkle - as they sing in the church choir, meet smooth-talking but well-intentioned boys stix and levi, and then find their first taste of success as a singing group - first as a sweater-wearing quintet called the hearts and then as a glitzy trio known as sister and the sisters. but naturally there are problems beyond the silly name for the group - sister gets involved with nasty drug dealer satin struthers who beats her and turns her into a cocaine junkie; levi goes to prison for getting caught in a drug pick-up for satin; stix gets frustrated by failure and unwisely turns to some jewish mobsters for financial help; delores just gets plain fed up; and poor little sparkle has to decide what kind of future she wants. a big plus is that r&b great curtis mayfield wrote the atmospheric songs, some catchy and one, "look into your heart", a real winner.<br /><br />the solid cast does its best under the contrived circumstances. lonette mckee's valiant attempt to make sister a tragic figure is undercut by some of the ham-fisted plot turns, including a sad billie holliday-like turn at the mike. before they hit it big on primetime tv, philip michael thomas and dorian harewood portray stix and levi with boyish vitality if not much credibility. the best work comes from mary alice in a relatively silent turn as the girls' patient mother and a pre-"fame" irene cara who effortlessly exudes sincerity in the title role (though her costumer and hair stylist should be shot for the hideous look she achieves in the final scene). the dvd just comes with the original theatrical trailer complete with an unctuous voice-over by dj casey kasem and a bonus cd of five of the film's songs performed not by the original cast but by aretha franklin off her 1976 recording of the soundtrack. it's not a terrible movie, just an interesting if lacking curio that happens to cover the same ground as "dreamgirls".