i can't believe we watched this total piece of crap but we did and i feel obligated to warn others to avoid it at all costs. when one of the main characters announces that he's gay twice in the first five minutes, don't ignore it as typical pc nonsense and figure it has to get better because it won't. if his faggoty boyfriend hanging all over him doesn't make you sick, then be thankful the freak who wrote and/or directed this grossout is somehow attempting a little restraint. i mean, get real. it's one thing for there to be a gay character appearing in a movie in such screwed up times as these but quite another to have it continually slapped on the screen and examined up close and personal when the the liner notes clearly state the flick's supposed to be about a mother seeking some sort of "closure" over the sudden death of her daughter. what does one thing have to do with the other, one might be tempted to ask? apparently, the two issues are inextricably interwoven. and if that weren't bad enough, there's the bearded lady at the ice cream parlor. i mean, seriously, hasn't that poor woman ever heard of electrolysis? why must she go around like that? at the very least, how about shaving the ugly thing off, and while you're at it, have those horrible moles removed, too. would you slurp up some ice cream she just served you? i think not. it must be a new jersey thing. <br /><br />you'd think diane keaton might save this piece of drek, but think again. was she actually trying to put lipstick on a corpse? i don't even wanna think about it. so what if the body was supposed to be that of her own dead daughter. this grotesque excuse for cinema is slop from the word go and that's all there is to it. one wishes that each of these characters would simply walk out into the waves and just keep going. none of these flaky people even remotely gain our sympathy for an instant. trust me -- pass this piece of crap up. it's not about death, a mother who inadvertently suffocated her daughter, or even the other much more unsavory issues it keeps bringing up no matter how little you want to hear it. it's a load of perverted trash from a misguided and talentless director.