the plot of this terrible film is so convoluted i've put the spoiler warning up because i'm unsure if i'm giving anything away. the audience first sees some man in jack the ripper garb murder an old man in an alley a hundred years ago. then we're up to modern day and a young australian couple is looking for a house. we're given an unbelievably long tour of this house and the husband sees a figure in an old mirror. some 105 year old woman lived there. there are also large iron panels covering a wall in the den. an old fashioned straight-razor falls out when they're renovating and the husband keeps it. i guess he becomes possessed by the razor because he starts having weird dreams. oh yeah, the couple is unable to have a baby because the husband is firing blanks. <br /><br />some mold seems to be climbing up the wall after the couple removes the iron panels and the mold has the shape of a person. late in the story there is a plot about a large cache of money & the husband murders the body guard & a co-worker and steals the money. his wife is suddenly pregnant. <br /><br />what the hell is going on?? who knows?? nothing is explained. was the 105 year old woman the child of the serial killer? the baby sister? why were iron panels put on the wall? how would that keep the serial killer contained in the cellar? was he locked down there by his family & starved to death or just concealed? who is mr. hobbs and why is he so desperate to get the iron panels?? he's never seen again. why was the serial killer killing people? we only see the one old man murdered. was there a pattern or motive or something?? why does the wife suddenly become pregnant? is it the demon spawn of the serial killer? has he managed to infiltrate the husband's semen? and why, if the husband was able to subdue and murder a huge, burly security guard, is he unable to overpower his wife? and just how powerful is the voltage system in australia that it would knock him across the room simply cutting a light wire? and why does the wife stay in the house? is she now possessed by the serial killer? is the baby going to be the killer reincarnated? <br /><br />this movie was such a frustrating experience i wanted to call my pbs station and ask for my money back! the only enjoyable aspect of this story was seeing the husband running around in just his boxer shorts for a lot of the time, but even that couldn't redeem this muddled, incoherent mess.