german nut case j"org buttgereit apparently has fans - but i don't know why, and i'm definitely not one of them! the only buttgereit film i'd seen previously was nekromantik and i hated every minute of it, but - shockingly - this film is worse! der todesking is pointless in the same way as nekromantik, but it's a worse film because it's boring in a way that few movies have ever managed (it's not far off the blair witch project, seriously). some people say that this film is 'sick' and 'shocking', but it really isn't. the director may have been making a point about death, but only he knows what it is. how anyone could watch this film and be anything other than bored with it is completely beyond me. the film revolves around the theme of suicide, and follows the deaths of seven different people over the course of a week. yes, that means we have a pointless and boring episode for monday, a pointless and boring episode for tuesday, a pointless and boring episode for wednesday etc etc. this film manages to be even more boring than my average week! <br /><br />der todesking is apparently an 'art' film, although this would appear to be a reference to the way that not very much makes sense rather than a reference to the film bearing any resemblance to 'art'. each segment of the film is meant to tell a separate story - but it doesn't! we just get a quick little sketch on suicide, and it only makes you wonder what the point is. the film feels like it should be deep, but there's a great big void where the intelligence should be and nothing there to fill it. buttgereit uses a few evocative images; but i'm unlikely to remember any of them for more than a week or so because this film just isn't that memorable. there's a shot involving a decomposing man's body that features fairly often, but that gets old pretty quick and all you're left with is the rest of the film, which is unfortunate. if i were to struggle for good things to say about this crap, all i can think of is this; the title sounds cool. as i mentioned, nekromantik is the only other film i've seen from this amateur director; i have copies of schramm and nekromantik 2, and now i'm really in no rush to watch either. der todesking is a dull film with no point and anyone that calls it 'art' is very much mistaken. give it a miss.