i went into this movie with high hopes. normally, i'm not too picky about my movies and creature movies are *always* fun to watch, or so i thought. i'll list the good parts of this movie: -the creature effects. all of the creatures were well-done, their movements were realistic, and they fit into the other imagery well. to be honest, the creature effects were the only reason i gave this movie a 2 rather than a 1. now, the bad things: -the acting. good lord, i've seen bad acting, but this movie takes the cake. not a single one of the characters is even *close* to believable. it's like the director sent out a casting call and picked all the worst try-outs from it. i tried very hard not to giggle too loud, cause i didn't wanna upset anyone else in the theatre, but the acting really was that bad. -the storyline: the entire story is full of plot holes from beginning to finish. you can pick at least 5 plot holes out of any given 30 minutes of film. the plot holes, of course, are complimentary with the cheese. this is probably one of the most clich'ed, not thought-out, and outright dumbest stories i've ever seen put on screen since i had the grave misfortune of sitting up one night and watching parasite on the scifi channel. -the dialogue: this is a world where everyone says the cheesiest and most clich'ed thing they possibly can, at every chance they possibly can. in this world, it seems like every line has been spoken before in at least 30 other low-budget creature movies. it is the world of cheese and clich'e. -the special effects. while the creature effects were downright awesome, the special effects fail miserably. yes, they are better than those seen in other movies, but a lot of it is in the presentation. and this movie has no presentation whatsoever. it looks kinda like the special effects used on the power rangers tv show, to be honest. to sum up: dragon wars is worth neither your time nor your money. the concept is good, but it is trapped in the bad directing, acting, dialogue, and cheesiness of the film. wait til the next big monster movie comes out. it's gotta be better than this, cause dragon wars is absolutely horrible.