as with most of the reviewers, i saw this on starz! ondemand. after watching the preview with my girlfriend, she decided not to watch it from how bad the preview watched. i, on the other hand, thought it looked weird enough to warrant a watching. i mean, the design of dr. meso alone warranted at least a brief sweep over this title. after watching it, i can say that while there are some interesting aspects to it (namely the browsing over the notebooks and trying to figure out the incomprehensible story), it's best to pass over this one.<br /><br />*major spoilers ahead* after making their first video for their as-yet-unfinished cd, the lead singer, cassidy, kills herself in an attempt to get her boyfriend neil to notice her. 3 months later, the band is trying to decide if they're going to finish the album or not. to try and see what cassidy would have wanted, they go to see an old psychic friend of hers, dr. meso, and try to contact her through him. in his card reading, dr. meso turns up four straight death cards for the four remaining band members. bad times are ahead. (i just wanted to make a point that later in the film, they do explain that the death card really just represents change. kudos to them on that at least.) even without the approval of their deceased friend, they decide to go ahead and finish the album. but while in the bathroom, cassidy's best-friend, dora, catches a glimpse of her deceased friend. when another band-mate goes in to check on her, dora is standing in the dark, requesting his sunglasses. that's when the killing begins.<br /><br />my main problem with the film from the very get-go is that it seems to be heavy stylized to a fault. too many warping effects, unnecessary zooms, and a plethora of other cheap effects riddle this film. an incoherent storyline doesn't help anything either. while the narrative hangs together for the first part, once cassidy is resurrected, everything falls apart. we have jump-cuts between cassidy and dr. meso (who mysteriously was able to get into a locked building), which show they are connected in some way or another. however, within a few minutes of that revelation, we find that cassidy really is an independent being from meso. she then turns on the guy who had been helping her revenge and he scurries away in a way that calls to mind jack nicholson as the joker. but not in a good way.<br /><br />from this point on, the whereabouts of cassidy are shown, but there are strange lapses as character moves from place to place almost out of sequence. one scene we see cassidy standing at a desk, when a character enters in the next, she's nowhere to be found. as he moves behind the desk, we see her at the end of a hallway. then in another room grabbing the keys (which neil already has), then back again. not to mention that from one moment to the next, cassidy's mood seems to go a complete 180 without a catalyst to it. one moment, she wants to kill everyone (although she's only wounded 90% of the characters) - the next she's apologizing to everyone and walks out the door to die again. sound confusing? that's because it is. it's a jumbled mess that i'm sure the writer couldn't even figure out.<br /><br />as for the performances, most are particularly wooden. some though are interesting, but overall this isn't a piece that would be known for it's acting. the story is the driving force behind this piece.