i'm in awe! wow, prepare to be blown away by the uncanny ways of the ninja. watch them as they pounce, crawl along the ground (on their backs or stomachs) like a caterpillar, fly through the sky, climb buildings, hide and spring from trees, throw about ninja stars, role out blue welcome mats, disappear in smoke bombs, make a lot of swoosh noises with their blades and quickly sneaking or trotting about on their toes. what a sight! really i could go on about the many traditional actions, but i'll be here all day. oh not to forget we even get the legendary chuck connors popping up now and again, and watch him dispatch some ninjas with his shotgun with little ease. what class! what a badass! anyhow the ultra-cheap 'sakura killers' is some stupid, but cheesy ninja action fun that only fanatics of the genre would get anything out of this shonky b-grade debacle.<br /><br />a genetic lab in america has a very important video that's stolen by a couple of ninjas. two americans are sent to japan by the colonel (chuck connors) to retrieve it.<br /><br />the opening of the feature sets it up nicely. get ready for the laughs! afterwards it slows down, but soon after the two main protagonists learns about the ninja and goes through the training it gets a head of steam as they break in costumes and fled after the stolen beta tape that contains a very important formula. this is when the violently swift action and aerobic marital arts really come in to play. it's not too shoddy either, (like the moronic script and daft performances). the final climatic showdown is very well done.<br /><br />in the slow stretches it has the two americans (mike kelly and george nicholas) looking in to the case, sharing brainless conversations and encountering some minor problems. what made me laugh was how the ninjas were put off by how brave and clever these two were. these were supposed to be professional killers? director dusty nelson ('effects (1989)') does an earnest job with what he had and plays it for what it is. he centres the on-screen activities around striking taiwan locations. the score is a chintzy arrangement.