this is one of the very worst films clark gable made. only parnell was obviously worse. it is just so painfully clich'ed and the dialog is so lousy that it is something neither gable nor jean harlow should have been proud of making.<br /><br />gable is a heel whose illegal activities result in his girl going' to the slammer (like the gangster talk?). she holds out hope that he'll do the right thing but he just leaves her there--unknown to either of them, gosh, that she's "in the family way". eventually, the rogue returns to do the right thing and somehow they tie this all together into a happy ending! they seemed to have forgotten about gable's needing to take the rap and spend several years in the hoosegow. leonard maltin says "the stars are at their best here". by what standard? best at producing unintended chuckles? gimme a break!<br /><br />ps--after saying this, my wife thinks leonard maltin is going to find me and kick my butt. hmmm. however, despite my comment, i think mr. maltin is the finest reviewer and human being on the planet (i hope that appeased him).<br /><br />update--2/2/08. because i disliked this film so much the first time (especially the ridiculous ending), i decided to watch it once again. after all, sometimes when i watch a film again i like it much more and realize that i was a bit too harsh. while that has been the case with several films in recent months, i still disliked this film--even the second time. most of it was not because of the first half of the film. in the first half, harlow's character was amazingly stupid but at least it was believable. but when she was sent to prison, it was all clich'es until the final ridiculous marriage scene occurred. the bottom line is that this sequence is embarrassingly dumb--it just makes no sense at all and is akin to turning the movie into some wacky fairy tale instead of a love story about two cons. i stand by my original review (despite all the "not helpfuls") and think that aside from parnell and possibly polly at the circus, it might just be the worst gable film.