so i rented this from netflix because somebody gave me roger ebert's book "i hated, hated, hated this movie" and he gave this one a rare zero-star rating in the book and said at the end of his original review "mad dog time should be cut up to provide free ukulele picks for the poor". so i figured from ebert saying that i would see if it was really as bad as he said it was. i know most society says not to listen to critics and to judge for yourself but i could not express how much i hated this piece of junk like ebert did and never since ebert's review of rob reiner's "north" where he said he hated that movie ten times had i ever heard such a brilliant hatred movie review. here we have richard dreyfuss as a gangster which i don't think it would be terrible to see dreyfuss as a gangster if the screenplay for this movie were written well. but above all the other things that were awful about this "movie" i can certainly tell you the script was not written well at all. while the movie starts off with jeff goldblum saying that he enjoyed watching dreyfuss's girlfriend while dreyfuss was at a criminal hospital the movie starts off with some decent dialog after the opening credits. but after that first 4 or 5 minutes the other 85 minutes just consists of dumb characters talking pointless garbage for 30 seconds then someone gets shot. then there are a whole bunch of jokes about dreyfuss being mentally ill. haha. not funny. then we get an unpleasant and unfunny scene parodying frank sinatra's "my way" sang by gabriel byrne apparently to insult dreyfuss. of course because the screenplay was written on the level of a sixth grader dreyfuss shoots byrne over five times and byrne just will not die. are we as the audience supposed to even care or find that mildly funny? i can certainly tell you i did not care or find that funny. not only am i disappointed in dreyfuss (who i admire much as an actor) for producing and starring in this tripe but i am also extremely disappointed in jeff goldblum because this was released the same year that "independence day" was the top grossing film of the year and ultimately one of the most successful films in history. did goldblum feel that "independence day" would be a flop and then just take the next role that was offered to him to make some money if "independence day" were a bomb? what did an oscar winner and the star of two of the biggest money making films in history find remotely enjoyable about this? the opening sequence of "mad dog time" says that the movie is set on another planet. i only wish now that i have wasted 93 minutes watching this trash that it would have stayed and opened in theaters on the planet where it supposedly takes place so that way everyone on this planet would never here of this ridiculous waste of 93 minutes out of my life that i will never get back. ebert saying the movie should have been cut up is not good enough i am afraid. every copy of "mad dog time" should have gasoline poured all over it and be lit on fire. i have yet to top a worst movie i have ever seen because this one has won it's honor as the worst movie ever.