it is of course very nice to see improvements on turkish movie industry, however, i would have expected something more creative from togan gokbakar. starting from the script, which i believe it was not a wise written one as some may think. especially the cheesiness of the dialogs, which were putting the audience in a position that, as if they were not smart enough to understand the situations, which, most of the times makes the movie unbearable. it also has an obvious ending; you can easily guess the murderer from the beginning. the weakest part of the scenario is that the impossibility of seriously mentally ill patients to act like normal people, like professionals right away!!!did they ever search for the possibility of patients who are on heavy medicals, to act like professionals and use all the medical terms that even normal people cannot use?????!!!!!!also in the scene where staff was searching for the most dangerous patient, with out any weapon to protect themselves was another weird point of the film. and that scene was so suitable for "dikkat sahan cikabilir" title!! those are not the only weak parts of the movie. there were also a lot of preciosities in the film. the depiction of the most dangerous patient was an exact copy from hannibal, also appearance of togan in the very end is obviously the worst mistake that he could have done in his first movie! the fuss about the greatness of the movie and the interviews that actor's gave just made people to be curious and force them to see it. gen is a total disappointment. i would have wonder, if sahan was not this famous, would togan be able to shoot this movie, with this much of budget amount?? i hope togan would realize that it is not fashionable to play in a role as a director as he said in an interview. it was hitchcock who did it wisely and night shyamalan continued it successfully! he should be aware of the fact that he is not hitchcock nor shyamalan yet!!!!hoping him to be more careful and creative next time in this big industry!