after watching this film, i was left with a two very annoyances about this film: why did they make chen's character this "mcguyver hit-man" and lee's character such an incompetent idiot? chen's character's background is that he was raised in an underground cambodian orphanage for blood thirsty fighter where they learn to brawl it out to the death like wild "dogs." this detail is pushed early on during a scene where he gets into a cab and as it starts to drive, he shows how he is unfamiliar with a seat belt. soon after this scene, he has a similar situation at a dim sum restaurant. not only is he uneducated, he is starving. this is not a reference to chen's scrawny physique but to the two early scenes in the film where he is scarfing down food, one of which, being rice porridge off the floor of the lower deck on an old ship. si in the first ten minutes of the film, it is established that chen is malnutrition-ed, unmodernized,and has only thing going for him, his "dog" brawling fighting style of some sort. despite this situation, chen manages to out-shoot every policeman (even managing to ricochet a bullet off a metal pipe to hit a guy in a head, whom was holding chen's girlfriend hostage) and has somehow attained a super human strength (swings a 50 lb block of concrete, plastered on the end of a metal pipe, to the head of the police chief as he is getting shot in the chest, by said chief).<br /><br />now lee's character...okay, i get it, he's depressed, he's got some baggage, but wow, can he do anything right? one moment, they try to make him cool, composed and ready to take care of business, and the next moment, he just got beat again. first scene he runs into chen, and he manages to misses him, from approx 15 ft, multiple times. toward the end of that scene, lee watches chen as his close friend and coworker gets slowly stabbed in the neck with a long knife for a good full 5 seconds, while holding a gun to chen face, at a 10 ft distance. even at the end of the movie, lee manages to get stabbed to death and fails once again.<br /><br />and my biggest problem with this movie is that it is presented in a manner that film makers are trying to get the audience to sympathize with chen's character and that he is just "killing to survive." that would be a lot easier if i didn't just watch chen kill innocent people throughout the whole awful movie. of the numerous people he killed, only two people had the intention of trying to kill him, the police chief and lee. others were just people who were eating, boat owners, taxi drivers, and policemen trying to arrest him, not kill. overall, chen's character is a just a cold blooded killer who kills for what he wants, even if its just a free ride. (did i mention he is carrying a wad of hundred dollar bills throughout most of the film?) my 3 stars go to some of the interesting director/camera work who got in some nice shots.<br /><br />bottomline: one made for the nut-hugging chen fans. for me, "dog bite this dvd"