yet again one of the most misunderstood goddesses of my country has been twisted by "westerners" who cannot understand the esoteric symbolism of the mother goddess in her dark forms. the mother takes on the frightening form of kali mata to destroy our inner demons, and to terrify our egos. and though blood sacrifice is given to kali and durga, the events depicted in this film are just absurd. the mother takes on a wrathful form to be wrathful to our inner demons, limitations, and ego when no other form will suffice. it's also in her wrathful form that she burns away all your karmas in the "smashan" fires that you cultivate in your heart for her to dance on if you love her, and she will bring you to reality and truth. reality and truth has a dark side as well as light, which serves a purpose. the mother is the embodiment of the physical universe as well, she is nature. nature can be cruel and destructive to maintain balance. you cannot have growth and life without death and destruction. kali represents the force of destruction for the purpose of new growth and life both mundane and spiritual in the universe. it's very outrageous to me that people who know nothing of india or it's divinity can just take one of our beloved goddesses and use her like a cheap prostitute to make some low-budget, talentless horror film. how dare they take our beloved mother and portray her as a horror that makes people chop their eyelids off!? she is only horrific to those who are attached to their ego and who live in delusion , greed, anger, and other inner-demons. it's very clear to me that the person who wrote this movie must have a very serious self-deluding ego, and serious inner-demons to see kali as so horrible and terrible. when the ego drops away she becomes a form that is enchanting, beautiful, and young, a beauty that is so enchanting to behold that she enchants the entire universe with it. kali maa is an ancient mother, not to be trifled with for the sake of entertainment, let's just hope that in her endless compassion and mercy that she does not take on wrathful form to those involved with this movie.<br /><br />the audacity that westerners have in using religions like my own, or the religions of the caribbean islands such as santeria, and vodou which are actually very positive, and other such religions to twist and exaggerate misunderstood elements that the western mind cannot comprehend, is totally ridiculous. it's clear that there is no respect for what people live, breathe and believe in when it comes to these kind of flicks.<br /><br />kali maa in reality is a caring and compassionate mother, whom we shed tears at her beautiful feet in devotion and love for. and i am happy that my mother takes on wrathful form sometimes to protect her devotees from themselves and from outside forces.<br /><br />many praises to the real kali maa, who has shown many the path of god and realization.