this santa movie starts off strange and i think santa might be a pedo. instead of the usual elf toy makers, this santa has apparently kidnapped kids from all across the globe and makes them sing a bit like characters from "it's a small world"! i guess there are no child labor laws on the weird astral plane on which he lives (it's apparently not the north pole and not on earth)!! none of these kids seem very happy and i kept wanting to see commandos break in and rescue the tykes, though i guess for some of the third world kids, these working conditions were perhaps an improvement over local sweatshops. i sure hope that all they do is sing and make toys.<br /><br />then, the scene abruptly changes to hell where lots and lots of demons dance about like they are in a busby berkeley musical. this fun in put to a stop by satan who orders one of them, pitch, to go to earth to ruin christmas!! personally, i thought this movie already did that! the devil and his imps are actually kind of cute--like hot stuff from the harvey comics but with cool evil goatees! or, if you are puerto rican, like a vejigante mask with a goatee! <br /><br />somehow a poverty-stricken mexican kid named lupita, a group of jerky kids who want to mug santa and some rich kid are key battlegrounds for the devil and santa!! so, if the prince of darkness (not donald trump, it's the other prince of darkness) can somehow make her steal and be bad, he'll 'win'--what, we don't really know! in fact, as they root her on, you get the impression that the film makers intend santa to be jesus--as he has all these great powers and fights the devil over kids' souls! later, santa meets with his friend, merlin. he asks him to make him a special powder that makes people dream nice dreams. considering how much santa laughs in the film (like a demented chipmunk), i assume he must use this drug a lot! he immediately goes to see a blacksmith who makes him a magic key that opens all doors. considering he keeps kids as his personal 'assistants', this magic key thing worries me immensely! during santa's christmas eve ride, you see lupita behave like a little angel--one problem down. santa then takes time out now to take care of the rich kid whose parents are selfish jerks. he gives them some sort of crazy cocktail which magically solves their problems--two problems solved. this is a rare case where alcohol/drugs help kids and solves problems! and as for the little muggers, he gives them coal! frustrated with his losses to santa, pitch then tries to steal the sleigh (which is pulled by creepy animatronic deer). when this fails, he destroys santa's stash of 'magic powder'! as a result, santa can't become invisible to avoid dogs and gets treed. uh, oh...how can santa take a detour to the betty ford clinic if he's stuck up a tree?! will st. nick get down from the tree and get the monkey off his back or will the devils win? if you care, tune in and see. however, be warned that the film is bat-crap crazy! <br /><br />technically speaking, the film is yecchy. while it is in color, it's really gaudy. the music is mostly done on an organ--which, along with bad singing from the kids, produces perhaps the worst soundtrack i've heard in recent memory. and the story is just incomprehensible and very, very, very creepy. devils and a santa that kidnaps kids is just plain creep-tastic. it's a film you should never show to kids but makes a great film to watch with friends so you can laugh at it from start to finish!