this has to be creepiest, most twisted holiday film that i've ever clapped eyes on, and that's saying something. i know that the mexican people have some odd ideas about religion, mixing up ancient aztec beliefs with traditional christian theology. but their day of the dead isn't half as scary as their take on santa claus.<br /><br />so..santa isn't some jolly, fat red-suited alcoholic(take a look at those rosy cheeks sometime!). rather, he's a skinny sociopathic pedophile living in heaven(or the heavens, whichever), with a bunch of kids who work harder than the one's in kathy lee gifford's sweat shops. they sing oh-so-cute traditional songs of their homelands while wearing clothing so stereotypical that i was surprised there wasn't a little african-american boy in black face singing 'mammy'. this santa is a peeping tom pervert who watches and listens to everything that everybody does from his 'eye in the sky'. this is so he can tell who's been naughty or nice(with an emphasis on those who are naughty, i'd bet).<br /><br />there's no mrs. claus, no elves(what does he need elves for when he's got child labor?) and the reindeer are mechanical wind-up toys! this floating freak show hovers on a cloud, presumably held up by its silver lining.<br /><br />santa's nemesis is...the devil?! what is this, santa our lord and savior? weird. anyhoo, satan sends one of his minions, a mincing, prancing devil named pitch, to try to screw up christmas. let me get this straight-the forces of purest evil are trying to ruin a completely commercial and greed driven holiday? seems kind of redundant, doesn't it?<br /><br />pitch is totally ineffectual. he tries to talk some children into being bad, but doesn't have much luck. i was strongly struck by the storyline of the saintly little girl lupe, who's family is very poor. all that she wants is a doll for christmas, but he parents can't afford to buy her one(they spent all of their money on the cardboard that they built their house out of). so pitch tries to encourage her to steal a doll. in reality, that's the only way that a girl that poor would ever get a doll, because being saintly and praying to god and holy santa doesn't really work. but lupe resists temptation and tells pitch to get thee behind her, and so is rewarded by being given a doll so creepy looking that you just know that it's chucky's sister.<br /><br />along the way pitch manages to get santa stuck in a tree(uh-huh) from whence he's rescued by merlin! merlin? you have got to be kidding me! since when do mythical druidic figures appear in christmas tales, or have anything to do with a christian religion? and doesn't god disapprove of magic? they'd have been burning merlin at the stake a few hundred years ago, not asking him to come to the rescue of one of god's aspects(or that's what i assume santa must be, to be going up against satan). this movie is one long huh? from start to finish, and it'll make you wonder if that eggnog you drank wasn't spiked or something. probably it was, since this movie is like one long giant dt.