"house of evil" aka "dance of death" of 1968 is the first of four infamous and odd last movies starring the great boris karloff and directed by jack hill and juan ib'anez. unlike "snake people" (1971), "the incredible invasion" (also 1971) and "the fear chamber" (1972) which were all released after karloff's death in 1969, "house of evil" was released in 1968, when karloff was still alive. "house of evil" is regarded by many as the worst of these four movies, which are without doubt all rather crappy, but definitely have their entertainment value as the unintentional comedies they are. i personally prefer "the fear chamber" and "house of evil" over the other two, simply for the reason that the lack of the slightest logic is even more extreme, and since there is no suspense whatsoever in any of the movies, the lack of logic increases the unintentional fun factor.<br /><br />the odd story (i don't know if i can really call it a 'plot') is set somewhere in europe in the 19th century. after some girls are murdered and found with their eyes ripped out, mathias morteval (karloff), an enthusiastic organ player, invites his few remaining relatives to his bizarre mansion, which is full of eerie toys. his kinfolk includes lucy durant (julissa), who is engaged to one of the police inspectors investigating the murders.<br /><br />i won't give away more of the story, but i can assure you that it is quite bizarre throughout the movie. there are some very funny moments, especially some things karloff's character says. boris karloff was without any doubt one of the most brilliant and important icons of the horror genre who ever lived, and he manages to award this odd movie with a tiny bit of his greatness, and although (or because) his role is (due to a poor script and and directing) in no way scary, it looks like he deliberately plays it with a sense of humor. just like in the movie's successors "snake people" and "the fear chamber", the female lead is once again played by julissa. <br /><br />most of he supporting performances are hilariously amateurish, the cinematography is terrible and the locations and sceneries are beneath contempt. the storyline lacks the least bit of logic and the dialogue often does not make the slightest sense. it is the poor story and dialogue, however, that makes this movie so entertaining to watch. "house of evil" may be an extremely crappy attempt of a movie, but it is certainly as (unintentionally) funny as it is bad. fans of ed wood's movies should be very amused, i personally found it hilarious. crappy but entertaining nevertheless, and definitely worth watching since there's boris karloff in it and due to the fun factor. 3/10