i had some time to kill before watching football so i saw this movie being offered on the scifi channel and it literally after watching it i thought i had encountered my version of mentally walking the bataan death march as my conscious was beaten into submission by the awful movie which ripped off the mummy series and jurassic park. it was so bad that i thought the opening credits were the highlight of the movie and then it went into such a abysmal descent that it made the recent drop in the stock market seem like a hiccup. the acting was so bad that i was hoping that one and all would be buried at the end. the lead by casper van dien made me long for the high caliber acting of steven seagal in "on deadly ground" as his line reading was so wooden that woody woodpecker was thinking of making a cameo to sit on his shoulder. i also noticed that his emotional range is so limited that i was under the impression my kitten was more expressive when asking for popcorn to eat . the direction was so abysmal i looked back yearning to my nephew's grade 3 play recital which had more pace and better vision and the fact that this movie seems to be have spliced together from afterthoughts of the aforementioned movie franchise it can not even be thought of as a homage. the fx of the movie was so bad that i thought the director and producers were enviormentally friendly by recycling cheap special effects from grade z horror flicks from yesteryear. what robert wagner, tom bosley and geoffrey lewis were doing in this movies is beyond me and they should look at litigation against their agents for misrepresentation for getting them involved with such a dreck of a movie. my warning to one and all is watch this movie at your peril as this movie may cause your iq to diminish with prolonged viewing. on a side note i noticed at imdb that sometimes salaries for movies are published i was wondering if their is a way that actors that should give the salaries back for their poor performances in such movies. beware and be safe avoid at all costs.