elephant walk was a thoroughly dull film and i really was quite happy when finally a herd of elephants stormed through the mansion and ended this film. considering the money and cast, you'd sure expect the film to be a lot better, though i also question the odd casting of dana andrews as a man who is in love with elizabeth taylor. it's not just the age difference but i just can't see the pair as a couple. perhaps some of this may be the fault of substituting miss taylor for vivian leigh at the last minute (due to miss leigh's deteriorating mental condition)--though i also have a hard time visualizing andrews and leigh as well. in addition, for an english woman, miss taylor doesn't even seem to try using an accent.<br /><br />the film begins with peter finch and taylor meeting and marrying in england. their plan is to return to finch's tea plantation in ceylon (sri lanka) and at first it seems like a good life. however, there are no women to talk with and the household staff seem to resent her. on top of that, once back home, finch behaves like a boorish jerk and taylor is miserable. neighbor andrews can see this and he declares his undying passion for her. however, taylor isn't yet ready to abandon her marriage. but, through the course of the film finch treats liz more and more like an object and finally she is ready to leave...when out of the blue, cholera strikes the plantation. so it's up to andrews, finch and taylor to work together to save the day--though by this point i really didn't care, as there is absolutely no chemistry between the characters, the dialog is pretty dull and you can't understand why taylor didn't leave her weasel husband within days of arriving in this inhospitable hell.<br /><br />the film isn't particularly engaging or convincing and despite a decent budget by paramount, the film is a sluggish mess. i particularly was surprised that although the film appeared to be filmed on location, many scenes were clearly filmed in a studio with a rear projected (and grainy) shot that wasn't integrated well. in one scene, for instance, taylor, finch and the lot are sitting on the veranda and the grass is bright green. then, when the picture cuts to people dancing right in front of them, the grass is brown! it's clear they really are not in ceylon in this scene or the scene with the giant reclining buddha. my advice is to skip this one or at least keep a pot of coffee nearby to keep you awake. despite its budget, it's just not a very good or inspired film.<br /><br />by the way, could miss taylor have been pregnant during part of this film? in some scenes (particularly at the beginning) she's wearing billowy clothes, has a double-chin and looks puffy. this isn't a criticism--after all, women do get pregnant! but if you look carefully, you'll see what i mean.<br /><br />also by the way, the basic plot in many ways is similar to giant--a great taylor film indeed! it's amazing how casting and decent direction can do so much.