this film is shoddily-made, unoriginal garbage. i like romantic comedies sometimes. watching a good one is like eating ice cream for dinner. it's not something you are going to do all the time, but the experience is so pleasurable that you can ignore how unwise you are being. this movie made me think about how stupid i was for continuing to remain seated for its entire running time. everything about it screamed made on the cheap. it actually looks like they overexposed the film at certain points it is so washed out. it boasts cheesy cgi and lame sets, too.<br /><br />the writing was clunky. i know that you can usually expect some plot problems in a screwball comedy, but you usually don't really care because you are laughing. this movie is so unfunny that you actually sit there and wonder about the unlikely series of coincidences and completely unbelievable behavior involved. events were placed in the film just to move the characters from one scene to the next or to provide exposition. sure, this is how all movies work, but you shouldn't notice that it's happening. inelegant. that's the term i should use.<br /><br />there was almost no one in the movie who was really likable. i didn't care who ended up with whom, as long as they all stayed the hell away from me, and i didn't have to listen to them talk about it anymore. why would the only really cool character in the movie, the paul rudd character, want to have anything to do with the completely bitchy, condescending, control freak played by eva longoria? also, almost all of the characters involved consistently picked the sleaziest solution to any situation. a straight man pretends to be gay for five years just to hang out (and bathe with) with a woman he is attracted to? the best feel-good moment they could come up with was to tack on a happy ending for the same schmoe where he gets together with rudd's equally annoying lying, kleptomaniac sister? lake bell and eva longoria are very attractive, appealing women. maybe they will find something better to appear in down the road.