after apprehending the man responsible for the murder of his boss, deputy sheriff thomas jefferson geronimo, iii, is assigned the task of taking the killer back to italy. on the way, however, the plane is diverted to malta. not long after landing, the killer escapes. now, and with little help from the maltese police, deputy sheriff geronimo is out to recapture a murderer. but will his "shoot first, take names later" brand of texas justice work in a foreign country? <br /><br />let me get this out right up front, i've seen final justice both with and without the mystery science theater 3000 commentary. i've seen the scenes that were cut that help make the movie a more coherent whole. and i've seen the cut-up tv version that was used for mst3k. having said that, i've got to admit that i much prefer the mst3k version. why? because final justice is one lousy movie. the mst3k commentary helps make it much more palatable. on its own, it's a real snoozer of an action movie with corny dialogue (often delivered with such thick italian accents that it's impossible to understand), bad acting, weak direction, gigantic plot holes, and most everything else you'll find in a bad movie. and if most of final justice wasn't "so bad, it's good", it would be one terribly dull movie on top of everything else. so, yes, i enjoy the often very funny mst3k commentary over the bad movie on its own.<br /><br />my main sticking points with the mst3k commentary and with most of the reviews i've read on final justice, however, involve the criticisms of joe don baker. the main weaknesses in baker's performance actually have nothing to do with his size or the wardrobe choices of his character or any of the other jokes flung in his direction. instead, i think much of it is has to do with the poor decision to cast him in the lead in the first place. joe don baker has always struck me as a decent enough actor, but he's not the kind of guy i would call an "action hero" by any stretch of the imagination. he's more of a sidekick as he demonstrated with solid performances in a couple of james bond movies. or if you really want to blame someone for the problems with final justice, point your finger at director greydon clark. clark's resume can't begin to compare with baker's. so i say, "lay off joe don baker!"