i am an avid fan of violent exploitation cinema, who would never attack a film for being violent or disturbing. i consider "cannibal holocaust" a masterpiece and will always defend controversial films like "day of the woman" or "last house on the left" as genuine classics. anyone who browses through my other user comments will notice that i am actually very pro-violence/gore when it comes to films. however, i do think that there should be at least some point to the violence. this piece of crap doesn't have any point whatsoever. the first film in the notorious "guinea pig" series, "the devil's experiment" (1985) is widely controversial, but, as opposed to many other controversial films, this stinker has nothing at all to be recommended for. i must say that, before seeing any of the guniea-pig films, i already had a feeling that i would hate this one, knowing what it was about. due to its status as one of the most controversial films around, however, i decided i had to see it. i am very glad i didn't waste any money on this pile of crap, and i sure wish i hadn't wasted my time with it either.<br /><br />this thing's story (i don't even want to call it a 'film'): it doesn't have one. three scumbags torture a woman to death for some excruciating 40 minutes. that's it. there is no artistic value, no 'shocking' story, no suspense; nothing. simply the disbelief that a film that shows nothing except for a woman being tortured for no reason enjoys an enormous cult-following. it is disturbing, i give it that. of course it is disturbing to watch a torture video for 40 minutes. what is more disturbing, however, is the fact that many people actually seem to regard this pile of garbage as some kind of masterpiece. i really cannot figure why. the fact that the gore effects look realistic cannot be the reason, i hope. the girl who plays the victim isn't a very good actor, and reacts very calm to all the torture. that makes the film look less realistic, which is, in this single case, a good thing. this is a film that is sickening; not for its gore, but for its redundancy, its existence for the sole purpose of showing 40 minutes of torture.<br /><br />i strongly oppose any form of censorship. since this is 100% fake and nobody got hurt during its production, it is legitimate to make such a film. however, i cannot think of a single reason why anyone would like this, other than the morbid desire to watch suffering and the enjoyment of torture. this film's sequel "flowers of flesh and blood" gained notoriety when actor charlie sheen mistook it for an actual snuff film and informed the fbi. fortuneately, the film turned out to be fake. overall, "the devil's experiment" is a fake torture/snuff film that seems to have the sole purpose of looking as close to a real snuff film as possible.<br /><br />"the devil's experiment" is one of the worst films i have ever had the misfortune of sitting through. don't torture yourself by giving this piece of crap a try for its controversial status. do yourself a favor and avoid it. zero stars out of 10, i wish there was a negative scale in order to appropriately rate this pile of crap.