jim carrey is one of the funniest and most gifted comedians in film today. with his hyperactive spontaneity and his rubber face he can just go crazy, and we love him for it. he has the ability to make mediocre comedies (ala ace ventura), and turn them into decent comedic outings. or, in the case of 'liar liar', make them some of the most hilarious contemporary comedies around. carrey has also proven himself capable of tackling dramas. he was excellent in both 'man on the moon' and 'the truman show.' the guy is remarkable.<br /><br />then comes 'bruce almighty,' an ideal vehicle for carrey, and a premise that should have worked; carrey, after complaining about god and how his life stinks, is enabled with god's powers. however, the script is pure recycled garbage. now, no matter how bad a script is, carrey's improvisation alone sometimes makes an unfunny scene funny. the problem is that there are very few opportunities for carrey to be unleashed because so much of the comedy relies on silly special effects, only some of which are amusing. carrey is rarely able to improvise because he has to work around the special effects. the writers apparently thought that all these special effects and superpower sequences were funny, because the rest of the movie is simply filler giving carrey nothing else to work with besides a whiny character who is absolutely humorless. he seems more like a 5-year yearning for our attention, wanting the viewer to find what he is doing funny, when it's really just annoying.<br /><br />i have always enjoyed jennifer aniston on 'friends' and she was superb in last year's 'the good girl.' she too has a gift for comedy, but with the script as linear as it is, she is simply given the part of the bitter girlfriend. she comes across as nagging, grumpy, and there is no chemistry between the two stars.<br /><br />'bruce almighty' should have been a comedy that works. but it doesn't even have the guts to tackle the subject matter that it's making fun of; religion. a few minor giggles (his internet is yehweh), but instead it's just turned into a comedic superpower comedy. not to mention that it's tone shifts from silly to heavy-handed, and even black comedy at times. the movie fails on nearly every level. that's not to see it is entirely devoid of laughs, but it's close. any movie that feels the need to incorporate scenes of a dog peeing to get it's laughs has problems. but hey, if you find pee jokes funny, go for it.<br /><br />