i dug this out and watched it tonight. i honestly think it must be 20 years since the last time i saw it. i remember it being a seriously flawed film. i don't remember it being this bad!!!!!<br /><br />i am absolutely aghast that a project with this much potential should have been mistreated so reprehensibly. who am i to blame for this? the 2 guys who wrote (and i use that word loosely) the script? the casting directors who so terribly miscast at least 3 major characters in the story? (only 2 of them are among "the amazing 5".) the director, who clearly refused to take it seriously, and kept shoving awful music on top of bad writing & bad acting everywhere? (i liked the theme song-- but it should never have been used all the way throughout the entire film!) don black, who should be ashamed at some of the lyrics he wrote for that music?<br /><br />it figures that i should pull this out, less than a week after re-reading the comic-book adaptation. the first 15-20 minutes of the film more-or-less (really, less) parallel the first issue of the comic. as i watched it tonight, i kept wondering-- why was almost every single detail changed? doc showing up, then using his wrist-watch remote-control to open the safe, and the sniper's bullet missing him by 5 inches because the refractive glass, were just about the only things left the same. i mean, if you're gonna do an "adaptation", why in god's name change everything???<br /><br />once they leave doc's hq, virtually nothing is as it was in the comic (which, given roy thomas, i figure probably follows the book). i read somewhere they actually combined elements of 2 different novels into one movie. again-- why? i've heard it was changed because they weren't able to secure the kind of budget they wanted. i look at the film, and think... lack of money in no way explains what i saw on the screen!!<br /><br />you know, when people complain about joel schumacher, they should really take a look at this thing. the best thing i can say is, i think it would make a great double-feature with the 1966 batman feature-- and probably a great triple-bill with that and the 1980 flash gordon. all 3 films are "silly". maybe we can "blame" the 1966 film (and tv series) for this. some fans have complained over the years that adam west's batman ruined the image of comic-books in the minds of generations of non-comics fans. i think the same could be said for hollywood. i'm reminded of how many really, really bad films based on "classic" characters have been made over the years, especially (it seems to me) in the late 70's & early 80's. charlie chan, fu manchu, tarzan, buck rogers, flash gordon, the lone ranger-- all "murdered" by hollywood types who think, "oh, comic-books! so you know it's supposed to be stupid!" more like they're the "stupid" ones. what a waste of potential.<br /><br />let me say some good things... despite the script and the directing, ron ely is great. when i read a doc savage story, i don't think of the james bama paintings, i think of ely. bill lucking (who later was a regular on the a-team) is terrific. eldon quick (who i've seen somewhere else, but can't recall where) is terrific. paul gleason-- who i absolutely hated with a passion and a vengeance in the breakfast club ("teachers" like the one he played should be banned from ever teaching anywhere), may be the best of the "amazing 5" in the film. pamela hensley-- though her part was almost unrecognizable from the original story-- is terrific. before she let her hair down, i also realized she looked a hell of a lot like "ardala valmar" from those awful john calkins buck rogers strips i just read the other day. she's got a big nose like ardala-- only not quite as pronounced. the comics ardala actually looked more like the 1936 movie princess aura-- or cher. or maybe streisand. take yer pick. (ardala actually got plastic surgery in the george tuska strips-- after, she was stunning!)<br /><br />paul wexler, funny enough, i saw just last week in a get smart episode. i wonder if he was anything like the character he was supposed to be playing? i don't know, because that character sure wasn't in the movie the film takes its title from.