dr. hackenstein begins at the turn of last century, '1909 the dawn of modern medical science' to be exact. dr. eliot hackenstein (david muir) is in the early stages of his rejuvenation of living tissue experiments, dr. hackenstein manages to bring a skinned rat back to life which confirms he has succeeded in bringing the dead back to life... it's now 'three years later' & dean slesinger (micheal ensign) is round the doc's house for dinner. as dean slesinger & dr. hackenstein eat they talk about hackenstien's experiments which dean slesinger has always been opposed to, dr. hackenstein shows dean slesinger his laboratory in his attic where he keeps the severed head of his wife sheila (sylvia lee baker) who died in an unfortunate 'accident' & can telepathically talk to him (christy botkin provides sheila's voice apparently). dr. hackenstein also show's dean slesinger a skinned chicken running around in a cage & explains that with the process he has developed he will bring sheila back to life. the dean has some sort of seizure & apparently dies. meanwhile sisters wendy (bambi darro as dyanne dirossario) & leslie trilling (catherine davis cox) plus their brother alex (john alexis) & their cousin melanie victor (stacey travis) are driving along near hackenstein's house when they crash, they seek shelter & assistance & arrive upon hackenstein's doorstep. dr. hackenstein invites the four stranded travellers to stay for the night. later on dr. hackenstein is visited by two grave-robbers, xavier (logan ramsey) & ruby rhodes (ann ramsey) who deliver a male body when hackenstein actually needs female parts for sheila. dr. hackenstein being the genius that he is decides not to waste the opportunity of having three young beautiful specimens available & starts to 'borrow' the bits 'n' pieces he needs to complete sheila...<br /><br />written & directed by richard clark i was pleasantly surprised by dr. hackenstein, i'll state right now that it ain't brilliant by any stretch of the imagination but for what it was i actually quite liked it. it moves at a reasonable pace even if it does tend to drag a little bit during it's middle as things settle down. the script tries to mix slapstick humour like a scene when dr. hackenstein is trying to restrain melanie & she tries to gain the attention of his deaf housekeeper yolanda simpson (catherine cahn) by kicking out & hackenstein keeping melanie behind yolanda's back who is seemingly oblivious to what's happening, with a touch of gore but i'd say dr. hackenstein is more of a comedy than horror in conception & feel throughout. there are some tacky puns & sexual innuendo as well which are always good for a laugh, dr. hackenstein to wendy "would you like to see my instruments" as an example. i also thought the scene when mrs trilling (phyllis diller) reports her missing daughter's to the bemused detective olin (william schreiner) was a pretty amusing sequence going round in circle's talking about why he isn't looking for them even though he has only just been told, why the cell doesn't have a prisoner in it & that if he didn't find the cousin not to worry about it. none of it's flat laugh-out-loud but i must admit i found myself smiling on occasion & found the film as whole to be quietly amusing. there isn't a lot of on screen gore, a few severed limbs, sheila's decapitated head, some medical stitching & those skinned animals which are definitely fake by the way. i liked the characters in dr. hackenstein too, which was surprise in itself. the acting isn't brilliant but to give everyone credit they put some effort into it, lots of exaggerated facial movements & some serious overacting means it's never dull, oh & the three birds in dr. hackenstein are fit if you know what i mean. technically the film is ok as well, once again it ain't going to win any oscars but i have to give the filmmakers at least some credit for trying to pull off a turn of the century period setting. it doesn't always work, the clothes are at odds with each other at times, the girls look like their from victorian england while the guys look like their from a western. the house looks as if all the filmmakers did was remove any modern object from the room & stick a few candles in there! it comes across as a little bit on the cheap side but it really isn't a bad looking film at all considering. could have done without the comedy music though. overall i ended up enjoying dr. hackenstein much more than i thought i would, although that in itself isn't a recommendation. it's certainly is not the best comedy horror film ever made & it certainly is not the worst either. a watchable enough piece of harmless fun.