i get the feeling that those involved in making "surviving christmas" didn't put much thought into the movie. the characters are so inconsistent and the plot makes so little sense that the movie played like a rough draft of a script thrown together with little but the one-liner concept of a rich guy paying a family to let him spend christmas with them.<br /><br />ben affleck portrays drew latham, the typical hollywood image of a wealthy, egotistical advertising executive who buys his way through life. his girlfriend, missy, leaves him shortly before christmas because she's disgusted that drew wanted to take her to fiji for christmas, which she calls "the family holiday," and the fact that drew has never introduced her to his family. we later find out that drew's father left when he was 4 years old, and his mother is dead, so it's a mystery why he doesn't just say that he has no family, rather than allow his girlfriend to believe that he doesn't care about his family.<br /><br />out of fear of being alone on christmas, drew tracks down missy's shrink (why? i have no idea), who suggests he do a forgiveness ritual at his childhood home. when he meets the family living in his childhood home, the valcos, drew offers them $250,000 to pretend to be his family, so he can relive his fond childhood memories. he gets angry when he later finds out that they have an adult daughter, alicia (christina applegate), because he "doesn't have a sister," and even goes so far as to write a script for the family to follow so that they act more like his "real" family. none of this makes any sense once drew reveals that he grew up with no family but his mother.<br /><br />also inexplicable is the character of alicia, who is annoyed that her family accepted drew's money, and refuses to play along with his fantasy. but for no good reason, she suddenly starts to like drew, and in a matter of minutes goes from hating his guts to acting like his girlfriend. drew is such a complete jerk throughout the movie that even his sad story about the lonely christmases of his childhood evokes no sympathy; i almost wish he had finished with, "just kidding! the real reason i don't see my family is that they all have restraining orders against me!" (2/10)