the film "52 pick up" simply does not work. see it if you are at all interested in elmore leonard or john frankenheimer, or anyone in the terrific cast, especially john glover who's admittedly brilliant. but the book--a slow-burning, noir thriller with lots of pulp--should have translated into an oscar-contending film instead of this dud that couldn't figure out whether it should faithfully portray the hard-boiled, gritty crime story of the book, or opt for a 1980s schwarzenegger shoot-em-up spree. shifting the scene from the original locale in the book, detroit (an area where leonard has resided for years and knows very well), to los angeles makes for a substantial problem that leonard tries to fix in his script, but ultimately can't. it was, for example, a clever device making mitchell's wife a city councilwoman (she had no job in the book), if you think about it: that's the only way you could ever plausibly blackmail someone in a sex-crazed city like 1980s los angeles for adultery, or any type of potential sex scandal. even then, it's more plausible in a more conservative eastern state like michigan to believe that a) its tiny porno "industry" is a sleazy, money-grubbing hell where three losers could desperately set up a not-so-stupid upper-middle-class fellow going through a mid-life crisis, and b) adultery alone might be something you could blackmail someone with, if their upstanding careers and old-fashioned wives couldn't handle the shock. as consultant ron jeremy will tell you, 1980s los angeles was a colorful, stylish porno mecca, more like the movie "boogie nights" than leonard's dark, shadowy world of hijacked tourist buses, grimy apartments, and drug deals in depressed urban squalor. then again, los angeles could be the backdrop of such a tale if one arranged the scenery more carefully--there are still plenty of dark crannies and psychopaths there. unfortunately, roy scheider's harry mitchell comes off in the film as a sexy, handsome uebermensch dancing through his problems without even working up a sweat. in the book he was fending off a jerk union official while struggling with a business that was failing. he also had a skeleton in the closet during the war involving friendly fire that he was responsible for, but never appeared to come to grips with. elmore leonard's stories usually have a central image involving a bizarre civility between criminal and law-abiding citizen. here, harry mitchell sitting in his office with his blackmailer, alan raimy, turning over his financial books to him and negotiating a more practical ransom, makes for such a central image. glover's blackmailer plays the scene with convincing intelligence, but scheider portrays the victim here as a cocky "good guy," in charge of the situation as if he were more a rambo with an m-16 than the everyman barely staying afloat as his world crumbles around him. "52 pick up" ends with one of the worst throwaway conclusions ever, considering all the thought that went into the original story and then the film. trapping raimy inside mitchell's jaguar and blowing him up with marching band music blasting out along with a sadistic monologue by mitchell, plays to an audience wanting the "sweet revenge" conclusion of a chuck norris movie, not the intelligent balanced world of leonard's book, where mitchell barely escapes in the end and the conflict between good and evil could easily go either way. i left the theater shaking my head and depressed. what a waste of talent.