david chase's "the sopranos" is perhaps the most over-praised television show in recent memory. not only is the series devoid of intellect and passion, it's devoid of a soul. as anyone reading likely knows already, james gandolfini *is* tony soprano, a big, fat a**hole of a mob boss with a spoiled b*tch of a wife, and two bratty, sh*t-brained kids living in - you guessed it - the armpit of america (that's new jersey, by the way). not only is tony a womanizing adulterer, he's also an unrepentant murdering scumbag, with a crew of "saturday night live" skit-worthy caricatures for subordinates. it's not the fact that tony is a piece of sh*t mobster that offends me (and apparently only me). allowing characters to be who and what they are, without judgment, is something american tv hardly allows. but chase - and his entourage of money-gorged, emmy-gored writers - have not simply allowed us to observe tony and his crew as they behave, nor have they even attempted to provide any insight into the action / reaction reality of (even obviously fictionalized) organized crime (a la "the godfather"). instead, chase glorifies and endorses his characters' greedy, violent, and corrupt lifestyle in the same way that tony, his wife, and even his hair-brained psychologist do week after week (or should i say month after month. or is it year after year? it seems like the show's paltry 13-episode seasons come out with the same regularity as a lunar eclipse). much has been made of the series' refusal to adhere to "network" structure, with plot lines that go nowhere, and characters that pop-up and disappear like backyard vermin. but if the show is so brilliant in its lack of structure, why does it always feel like i'm watching a soap-opera? tired mob clich'es, bored housewives, self-serving, irredeemable characters and plots that go nowhere. more than ever, i can see why so many americans of italian heritage are p*ssed at this show. it's enough to make you want to curl up with a good book (dant'e's "inferno" springs to mind).<br /><br />people on imdb love to claim that there's nothing good on television, and therefore "the sopranos" is a breath of fresh air. are these same people too busy paying their cable bills to watch "the shield"? (it's included in basic, ya know). how about the (still good) "the west wing"? or the brilliantly acted (if erratically written) "boston legal"? what about possibly the best comedy of the last few decades, "arrested development"? and lest we forget that we live in an age of dvds - nobody *has* to watch *anything* new. i'd much rather shell out $40 for an over-priced boxed set of, well, pretty much *anything*, than give hbo $10 a month (or $80 a dvd set!) to continue to prove how much of a hack-factory it can be.<br /><br />you want good television? watch "homicide: life on the street." or "murder one". or "picket fences". or even chase's prior show, "northern exposure." if you're already among "the sopranos"'s legion of brain-washed fans and critics, it's too late for you. but if not, leave tony and his worthless kin where they all belong - rotting with the fishes. ("sleeping" would be way too kind)