stephen king is generally known for the morbid, and that's fine, but this story is too morbid. some movies, by the end you feel sad for the characters or the situations they were put through...here you just feel depressed. the movie has a nice feel to it (at first), with the family moving to the country, and creepy old fred gwyne greeting and warning them of the pet cemetery, but this plot leads nowhere. it starts with so much potential, but by the end, it loses the potential to be a good horror movie, and becomes corny, extremely stupid, and ultimately depressing.<br /><br />louis (dale midkoff), his wife rachel (denise crosby), their kids ellie and gage, and their cat move to a new home in maine. they are warned by the loony farmer neighbor jud (fred gwyne) about the local pet cemetery and how it is cursed. louis thinks nothing of this and everything's fine until the family cat is killed. he bury's it in the cursed cemetery and it comes back to life, constantly hissing at the family and wanting to be left alone. one day, infant gage runs out in the road and is run over and killed by a truck, and louis knows he must bury him in the cemetery. when gage comes back to life, he is changed and wants to murder.<br /><br />with many of stephen king's works that don't translate well into films, i blame the directors and screenwriters. in this case, mr. king was the screenwriter, but i'm going to blame him for his awful story. by the end it's so pointless, and though unfunny, the premise is laughable. a little boy comes back from the dead and manages to kill people with what looks like a tiny scalpel, and not only that, but he manages to lift their bodies and in one case, carry a body from the ground to the attic!(?) i know this isn't set in reality but seriously, how stupid can this get? the scene where louis injects his deceased, now living again cat to kill it is strangely sad, because the cat did not deserve this. all it did was go around minding it's own business and he killed it. the scene where he injects his own infant son is almost unbearable. not unbearably sad, but the whole situation is just awful to think of. after being injected gage staggers drunkenly around before falling down dead....why did they need to make a movie ending with the death of an infant? but...even worse, the actual ending of them film involving louis burying someone else (not going to give away who) in the cemetery after gage kills them....what did he expect? why did mr. king write this horrible story and why was it made into a movie? it's depressing and pointless!<br /><br />my rating: * out of ****. 90 mins. r for violence.