n.b.: spoilers within. assigning an artistic director to an operatic production naturally and inevitably means you are going to get a piece of that director's mind. but directing a wagner opera is an especially tricky task, as he was perhaps the most explicit opera composer in terms of what things should look like and how they should unfold. hans-jurgen syberberg loads this filming of "parsifal," wagner's final masterpiece, with enough extraneous ideas to cause it to nearly burst at the seams. you get more than a piece of the director: you get the whole fatted hog and then some. syberberg is to be admired for his penchant for tearing back the covers on the uglier aspects of german history. but does it work to meld that desire to a wagner opera already brimming with its own concepts? <br /><br />the scenes with the knights of the holy grail in acts i and iii are especially laden with visual allegory and symbolism. these are drawn come from wagner's own time, from long before, and go well beyond. if you know what these things mean, they can enrich syberberg's vision for you (but not necessarily enhance wagner's vision); if you don't know what they mean, they're simply confusing, if not annoying. i won't bother uncoiling the plot of the opera here. suffice it to say it is a typical wagnerian synthesis of diverse elements, in this case a blending of the holy grail legend with the principles, practices, and pageantry of christianity. the theme of redemption plays the main role here, as in nearly every wagner opera.<br /><br />i personally had to sweat to get through syberberg's first act (amidst my jarring acclimation, the music saved the day). but act ii picks up the pace. here we meet klingsor, the evil sorcerer, out to entrap the wandering "innocent fool" parsifal. the greatest seductress of them all, kundry, will be used to entice him to the dark side. after an initial dalliance with more symbols, these get stripped away, and the long, gorgeous, transformational duet between young fool and temptress really takes off. finally the film starts working a genuine magic, and it is chiefly due to syberberg's choosing to set things naturally and simply. suddenly the acting starts to work (the expressive actress edith clever and the luscious soprano of yvonne minton team to create a wondrous kundry); suddenly the music seems to come to life and make vivid the inner turmoil of the two characters. the camera work stays simple and quietly fluid. in other words, wagner is allowed to tell his story more on his own terms. and it works beautifully. for me it was the most engrossing part of the film.<br /><br />with the re-entrance of the knights in part 2 of act iii, the weird extraneous symbolisms unfortunately creep back in. some other loony syberberg ideas: using a huge wagner death-mask as a major set-piece (causing the composer's protuberant proboscis to loom comically large); dressing the act iii knights in all manner of costumes, wigs, and makeup (what is the director saying? that the knights are a bunch of buffoons? that they express multiple or timeless layers of significance beyond their surface functions? it's anybody's guess); the insertion 