there are moments in this unique cartoon of pure beauty but overall it's not very good. limited animation as well as sub standard character and background design will limit its mass market appeal. the character design looks like a cross between the original star wars clone wars and disney's kim possible, (brendan, the main character in this also bares an uncanny similarity to ron stoppable in kim possible) background design ranges as far and wide as going from being bland and depressing to stylish and stark, yet by today's standards, overall it is still poor and cheap looking. many of the backgrounds bare resemblances to eastern european or nordic animation from the mid 80's, nice in its own way but for modern child audiences, used to cg slug fests and talking dogs with every piece of fur on their body swaying in the wind, is sure to disappoint. the story is also not overly engaging and many of the voice actors aren't overly impressive, noticeably the usually brilliant brendan gleeson who appears to be phoning in his part. there are also a few secondary characters who come across as slightly clich'e and stereotypically racist. however, some of the characters are good, the viking villains, although underused are well done and are specifically foreboding in both look and sound. there is one moment involving the main character and his mentor being saved by wolves from a viking attack that is very nicely put together. the look and feel also seemed to be very inspired by the film watership down including a blatant rip off/homage to the ghost rabbit of inlay. the look is also clearly and obviously inspired by gaelic/celtic/anglo saxon art so if you are into these subjects you may be drawn towards its look. the film also does have moments of very nicely structured shots leading the eye in a very artistic manner, including a pretty match cut and a large scale viking attack that is very moody and impressive. best of all though is the music, much of the background music is melodic and moving, specifically the song by the spirit girl which is truly beautiful and haunting and works very well with the images it covers. if the whole film was as poetic as this moment, (and it tries,) then this would be a very beautiful and poetic film that would sadly still not reach a wide audience, but instead it isn't a shame it wont reach a wider audience because most of it is average and cheap looking and doesn't stand up to modern animation standards. overall a film that clearly split my opinion in many ways, but all together not great but worth watching for the music and song and the occasional pretty or scary moment. oh yeah and the cat seemed to live for a long time, not sure how that was possible.