i think "the best of times" was a lost cause from the get go. the initial premise (guy drops the winning touchdown pass against a rival high school team, can never seem to get over it and then tries to reunite the two teams to play again) is one of the dumbest i have ever heard. since ron shelton went on to write much better sports films i wonder if there was more to it then that. i hope this film wasn't green lit with shelton pitching the story as i wrote above.<br /><br />so we have the premise. going from there you would think, or hope, that there might be a few twists along the way to keep things lively. no such luck. this script follows every predictable clich'e you can think of. there isn't a moment in this film you won't see coming a mile away before the film reveals it and the ending.... well if you can't figure out the ending by the end of the first reel then you haven't paid attention or seen any other sports movie in your life.<br /><br />robin williams and kurt russell star (and bore) in the leads. williams is the poor schmo who dropped the big pass and russell is the quarterback who threw the fateful pass. gee, do you think russell will suit up just once more to see if he and williams can right a wrong that the town has never forgotten? this is such a lame duck comedy with a lame duck script that one can only shake their heads wondering what might have been. sure there are a few chuckles and, to be honest, there is one truly funny scene. williams and russell have marital problems and the wives invite them over for dinner to resolve things. neither guy realizes that they have been invited over on a monday and, yes, monday night football is on. keeping in mind that the two teams playing have a combined one victory, the men (williams especially) try to resist the temptation to find out how the game is going. the scene dissolves into some hilarious bits as williams goes to check the score by using a bathroom visit as a ruse. when he returns he coughs the score to russell. later as russell is starting to make the moves on his wife williams wheels the television into their view from another room.<br /><br />it's an inspired and funny scene in a mostly uninspired and stupid movie.