for anyone that loves predictable movies with an awful soundtrack, lack of dialogue, clich'es up the wazoo, and also stereotypes that just happens to be typical of an american film, look no farther. dreamworks whether wanted to save money on acquiring voice talent, or really wanted to create an animated episode of national geographic; either way, they succeeded in delivering a rather bland and boring movie. spirit: stallion of the cimarron is a bore fest that sends mixed signals to kids and adults, and also fails to entertain despite the oh-so-cutesy theme of animals triumphing over humans. after looking past the wonderful animations, what you have remaining is nothing but a big mess.<br /><br />spirit is about a stallion that from the beginning of the film looks like quite a handful, as he is a horse that cannot be tamed, calmed, nor controlled. because of this, he rises and becomes the leader of his group of high-spirited horses, which includes his mom. but, his life of freedom and running around comes to an abrupt halt as he is captured by a group of americans in the process of connecting the wild west with the rest of the country. during this, spirit (never actually named that throughout the entire film almost) befriends a courageous native american, and a fellow female horse, and also has a lot of run-ins with the cynical and cruel army folks that apparently don't believe in giving up.<br /><br />why must movies mix computer animation with traditional? it comes off looking rather meshed, something spirited away suffered from as well. best example is when a train is chasing after spirit; you see the hand-drawn spirit running from a computer-animated train. it would look much better if it were one or the other, but not both; unless you can really pull off some nice effects. beauty and the beast's famous dance sequence uses computer animation, but it is nowhere near as obvious as the train or the snow in this movie. the opening sequence was the best-looking part of the film, kind of sad to see the rest of the movie slide a bit downhill in terms of quality. a little scene has multiple; i mean multiple similar shots of just a general's face, quite repetitive and annoying in my opinion.<br /><br />the kids might enjoy this flick, but with lack of dialog, song, and motivation, it might be a perfect technique in making hyper children fall asleep. while disney becomes criticized for its animated musicals, they wind up becoming much more entertaining than a more realistic approach to telling a story like this one. bryan adams has no place in this movie, and why does hans zimmer stay away from using a western theme in this movie, when it is a story taking place in the old west? soundtrack sounds a bit off if you ask me. at least they are using realistic noises of horses, two points for that. yet, if you are going to refrain from making horses talk, why even have a narrator interrupt every so often, which just so happens to be the main character himself?<br /><br />native americans are nice, and the western folks are evil, native-killing, horse torturing, rowdy, psychopathic monsters that must be destroyed. more or less, this is what spirit is showing us. it reaches a point in which they are trying so hard for the viewers to hate the travelers of the wild west; they even had a scene of several horses pulling a huge train up a hill, and another scene of them destroying an entire village of natives. now, the person spirit befriended happened to betray him, on more than one occasion, yet that is forgivable, apparently because he is not a soldier; that or because he has the sassy female horse.<br /><br />spirit isn't exactly a victim we should feel sorry for; the viewer is supposed to sympathize with spirit despite him putting his entire group of horses at risk, wreaking havoc, and even perhaps resulting in some off-screen deaths that are quickly shoved aside because oh no, spirit is in trouble! this film gets quite rhythmic, as we see in multiple instances spirit escaping from chains, kicking people around, destroying property, freeing horses, and then getting captured again---all in this same order too. the writers also seem to have an obsession with cliffs because they are sprinkled all over the movie; for an old west film, they certainly have very little room to roam.<br /><br />bottom line: this is most certainly no disney movie, as a matter of fact that is a bad thing, even though it was what they were aiming for. so, instead of the typical musical, we get a boring film that becomes predictable, dull and slow in multiple instances. even the decent animation becomes inconsistent when the computer work gets thrown in. everything about this movie was just wrong; from the ideals that back then americans that were not native were evil buffoons, to the soundtrack and musical score that just seemed so far off. kill bill vol. 2, which pretty much has nothing to do with the old west, has more of a western feel than this movie. do yourselves a favor and totally skip this by all means necessary. thank you.