i watched full house when i was younger and i can not understand why i did. i don't remember really enjoying the show. i think i and the majority of americans watching this were hypnotized by its badness. it will put you in a trance state and there is no going back. i am still scarred but i try to move on. i know it's a family show but that does not mean it has to be so bad. the show is so clich'e with every episode ending with a "talk" from the dad to make everyone's problems go away. the characters on the show are all loathsome. there is a know it all, cleaning obsessed, corny father who you want to punch in the face every time he comes on screen. we then have a supposed "rocker" uncle that is just there to look pretty for the moms that have to watch this crap. we have another uncle who is completely unfunny who does lame bullwinkle impressions (need i say more about him). there is the eldest daughter who can not act and is always whining about something. then a middle daughter who always says, "how rude!" to pretty much everything anyone says. finally, there is the youngest daughter michelle. do not get me started on michelle played but the horrible actors known as the olsen twins. if you believe in christianity i guess you would associate her with the antichrist. she is always demanding things, trying too hard to be "cute", is constantly saying "duh!" and rolling her eyes which makes you want to smack her. i am not a big fan of using a lot of physical abuse as punishment to children. but in her case, i would make an acceptation. she needed it on a daily basis. she is the most selfish character to ever be introduced to mainstream television. one example of this is when her rocker uncle is busy doing his job in the attic. the brat decides to constantly annoy him and demand attention. he yells at her and she gets upset. poor baby! the rest of the episode is catering to her emotional needs and the uncle eventually apologizes to her. ugghh! the show will lower your iq along with slowly destroying your will to live. i am surprised we don't hear in the news about full house being played in the background when police find people that have committed suicide. do yourself a favor and do not watch reruns of the show. you will thank me later.