for most younger viewers out there, they probably have no idea who buster keaton was. so, because of this, they probably won't feel nearly as sad when watching this film as i did. i happen to be a silent comedy freak--having see just about every keaton film still in existence. my being a huge fan made this film very painful from start to finish. this is because during his silent days, keaton was a very vibrant and creative comedian. he was amazing in his physicality and his films were almost never dull. however, in a move that movie historians still are baffled by, at the end of the silent era, keaton gave up his independence and became a stock mgm actor. instead of being a great creative force, mgm now saw keaton solely as an actor--and they wrote scripts for him that had no respect for what made him great. at first, these films with mgm were not that bad (such as the cameraman) but with talkies, the studio really blew it--putting him in several films with jimmy durante. durante's humor was based on his gift for gab and was abrasive. keaton, in contrast, was quiet and based on action. two more unlike and incompatible actors would have been hard to find. as a result of this deadly combination, keaton made some truly dreadful films.<br /><br />now this isn't to say that speak easily is a terrible film. no, instead it's just more of a time-passer and an amazingly unfunny one at that. in fact, if you go into the movie assuming it's a comedy, it will probably make the film harder to enjoy. instead, it's sort of like a drama with a few comedic elements. it is not a film that will produce belly laughs--especially for keaton fans.<br /><br />the film begins in an odd setting. keaton is cast as a college professor whose entire life is teaching. he knows nothing of the world and has his nose stuck in his books. in a bizarre move, keaton's servant tricks him into believing keaton has received $750,000 from a dead relative--hoping that this would spur keaton to get out and enjoy life. this is amazingly contrived but somehow it manages to work. not terribly well, but it works.<br /><br />keaton immediately leaves school and goes on a journey to new york to have some fun. on the way there, he meets up with an incredibly untalented theater troop. because he knows nothing of the world, he doesn't seem to realize they stink. and, because he thinks he's rich, keaton decides to take them all to new york to perform on broadway. however, just before the show opens, his friends find out that keaton is not rich. so, they decide not to tell keaton and try to keep him away from process servers that want to close the show. they assume that if the show is a hit, then they can pay off the debts and everyone will be happy. however, they forget that the show itself stinks. what are they to do? and, will keaton get the nice girl, get roped by a gold digger (thelma todd) or be flat broke and alone? if you care, see the film.<br /><br />as for keaton, he has few stunts in the film, though there are some dandy ones near the end. instead, keaton just kind of walks through the part in a very subdued manner. there's really little to love about this film or hate. it's just blah....when it should have been a heck of a lot better.