this one came out during the western genre's last gasp; unfortunately, it emerges to be a very minor and altogether unsatisfactory effort - even if made by and with veterans in the field! to begin with, the plot offers nothing remotely new: james coburn escapes from a chain gang, intent on killing the man (now retired) who put him there - charlton heston. while the latter lays a trap for him, coburn outwits heston by kidnapping his daughter (barbara hershey). naturally, the former lawman - accompanied by hershey's greenhorn fianc'e (chris mitchum) - sets out in pursuit of coburn and his followers, all of whom broke jail along with him.<br /><br />rather than handling the proceedings in his customary sub-fordian style, mclaglen goes for a sam peckinpah approach - with which he's never fully at ease: repellent characters, plenty of violence, and the sexual tension generated by hershey's presence among coburn's lusty bunch. incidentally, heston and coburn had previously appeared together in a sam peckinpah western - the troubled major dundee (1965; i really need to pick up the restored edition of this one on dvd, though i recently taped the theatrical version in pan-and-scan format off tcm uk). anyway, the film is too generic to yield the elegiac mood it clearly strives for (suggested also by the title): then again, both stars had already paid a fitting valediction to this most american of genres - will penny (1968) for heston and coburn with pat garrett & billy the kid (1973)! <br /><br />at least, though, heston maintains a modicum of dignity here - his ageing character attempting to stay ahead of half-breed coburn by anticipating what his next move will be; the latter, however, tackles an uncommonly brutish role and only really comes into his own at the climax (relishing his moment of vengeance by sadistically forcing heston to witness his associates' gang-rape of hershey). apart from the latter, this lengthy sequence sees heston try to fool coburn with a trick borrowed from his own el cid (1961), the villainous gang is then trapped inside a bushfire ignited by the practiced heston and the violent death of the two 'obsolete' protagonists (as was his fashion, heston's demise takes the form of a gratuitous sacrifice!).<br /><br />the supporting cast includes michael parks as the ineffectual town sheriff, jorge rivero as coburn's mexican lieutenant, and larry wilcox - of the tv series chips! - as the youngest member of coburn's gang who's assigned the task of watching over hershey (while doing his best to keep his drooling mates away!). jerry goldsmith contributes a flavorful but, at the same time, unremarkable score.