in the days before gore and sex took over, real horror films were made. castle of blood is, in my estimation, one of the finest, although other reviewers have given it mixed ratings. in an odd sort of way it reminds of the more recent the others, which was in the theaters a couple of years ago.<br /><br />director antonio margheriti remade his own picture in 1970 titling it this time web of the spider (aka nella stretta morsa del ragno). why he did this i do not understand, although the remake starred anthony franciosa and klaus kinski and was very good in its own right. perhaps he saw a good story and wished to tailor it more to american audiences. i do not really know. it is interesting that he did the original in black and white and the remake in color.<br /><br />castle of blood is excellent italian gothic. la danza macabra is said to be an unpublished work of edgar allen poe, who "appears" in this film. poe and lord blackwood, owner of a haunted castle, bet american writer alan foster (george riviere) that he cannot spend all souls night in said castle and survive. foster eagerly accepts the bet but soon regrets it, for he is witness to a series of murders committed by ghosts. it seems that the ghosts come back to life once every few years but are doomed to re-enact the crimes they committed in life. lord blackwood conveniently forgot to tell foster that his blood is needed for them to resurrect themselves on the next all souls night! <br /><br />it does not take foster and the beautiful elisabeth blackwood (portrayed by the incomparable barbara steele) long to fall in love, even though their romance is doomed, because elisabeth is one of the ghosts. i will not give the ending away, but will just say that castle of blood is every bit a romantic tragedy as it is a horror story. <br /><br />comments. this film is greatly atmospheric, even by the excellent standards of the italians. my personal opinion is they do true horror better than anybody, and the somewhat dim black and white filming only enhances this. in fairness, web of the spider was fine in its own right, even with color and greater brightness. i loved the lingering shots, something most modern day directors do not have the patience for. indeed, when alan first enters the doomed castle, we are treated to several minutes of him doing nothing but roaming around from room to room, the dread ands unease building in his face and mannerisms. by the time the first ghost appears, the audience is thoroughly primed and ready. there is wonderful dialogue between alan and the ghosts, something else not often done in standard ghost stories. there are also memorable scenes, very visual for this type of film. elisabeth's "murder" and the dance scene (reminds somewhat of the similar dance of the ghouls in 1962's carnival of souls) were particularly good.<br /><br />sadly, few general interest viewers will ever hear of, much less see, this film. that is a shame, for this one is a cut above the rest. i got my copy from sinister cinema and am not certain if it can be purchased anywhere else. for persons interested in this genre, it is a must see.