emma is my favourite jane austen novel - emma is well-meaning despite her flaws, so readers can forgive and love her, and the relationship she has with mr knightley, which is warm, familiar, respectful but playful, generating that warm, fuzzy, romantic excitement. mr knightley is the perfect man, and emma is as close as you could get in those times to an independent, clever, confident woman - remember, she is only 21, and was sure to have matured and grown out of her flaws. who doesn't want to be emma? who doesn't want to be told off by mr knightley? this version of emma gives you no sense of the things that i love about emma. i couldn't even finish watching it, i just found it so awful. i couldn't see that warm, generous side of emma, which drives the reader to love her: the patience and warmth she shows to her father; the closeness between her and mrs weston, which demonstrates her willingness to put her friend's happiness above her own (as she sacrifices the only equal companion in her household by forwarding miss taylors marriage). mr woodhouse's character in this adaptation just appears bizarre, rather than just quaint, elderly and a bit trying.<br /><br />this adaptation most importantly fails bring to life the relationship between mr knightley and emma. their relationship is built on mutual respect and affection: mr knightley is indulgent of emma's minor faults trusting that her intelligence and genuine care for others will never allow her to go terribly astray; and emma looks up to him, though playfully hiding this and continuing to use her own judgement. the dressing down he gives her right at the beginning of the show completely overstates the argument between them, and ruins all possibility of portraying the nature of their relationship as i've described above. mr knightley is also insufficiently attractive to bring to life the sexual tension between the leads (or to inspire any admiration from the female viewers).<br /><br />really horrible. i can't understand why anyone who truly like the novel emma could like it, unless it miraculously redeems itself after the point i switched it off.