universal's answer to "the exorcist" isn't a very good one. unfortunately, the film offers bland, unimaginative direction from michael winner who wastes an outstanding cast with a screenplay massing crater-sized plot-holes. not to mention, it's unbearably silly never explaining certain key elements within the story.<br /><br />model cristina raines moves into a high-rise owned by the catholic church with a creepy, blind priest john carradine, who holes up in there always at the window. she begins to suffer faint spells and nausea. what's worse is tenants she meets in the building such as burgess meredith(with a cat and a canary!)and a young beverly d'angelo as a lesbian. ava gardner(looking great at 55)is the realtor who showed raines the place. cristina's lover is chris sarandon, whose wife "committed suicide" after finding out they were having an affair. jos'e ferrer has a small role as the "priest of the brotherhood" who informs monsignor arthur kennedy to be careful as he heads to the very high-rise not only housing carradine but raines as well. sarandon sends a hired-hand up to the high-rise one night to check out a certain room above cristina's apartment where she heard metallic clanging and other loud racket. he winds up dead the very same night cristina "kills" her dead father in a nightmare. screaming mad on the street, cristina does indeed have blood on her which leads police detective eli wallach and partner christopher walken to investigate them with sure certainty that it all somehow leads back to sarandon who is a hot-shot lawyer who once beat the cop in court regarding the whole wife's suicide. that case is really a motivating factor is wallach's dogged approach to finding out whose blood was really on cristina and if sarandon has anything to do with it. you also have martin balsam as a professor who understands this type of latin cristina mysteriously understands and unbilled actors such as jeff goldblum as a fashion photographer and tom berenger as a man interested in this certain room that has become available in the very room(now renovated)that cristina once stayed in! what bothers me more than anything is lack of explanation. towards the end of the film wallach and walken are forgotten and we are left wondering why they just up and quit investigating. their characters are just left on the back-burner. how the priests know that "now is the time" when a certain man will die and must be replaced to guard a certain gate in that high-rise and why cristina suffers through the trauma she does isn't adequately explained. how certain ghosts just appear to cristina and disappear when she tries to show gardner the rooms they occupied during a cat's birthday(see for yourself)isn't adequately explained. not to mention gardner's role in the grand scheme of things..she brings people to that high-rise, but what is really her reasons in the film? it seems like this film should've been longer and cleared things up left lost to a rushed conclusion that is just laughable when it should be scary.