me neither, but this flick is unfortunately one of those movies that are too bad to be good and too good to be awful, which makes it utterly pointless and a total waste of time. there's nothing more uninteresting than a mediocre movie, and my name is modesty: whatever the subtitle is takes mediocrity to a new level. it's full of b-actors but isn't any fun whatsoever because it takes itself seriously. it sets itself up as a thriller but then turns into some kind of growing-up drama, flashback style. the beautiful alexandra staden, smothered beyond recognition under makeup, more resembles a cast member from top model than modesty blaise. i'm not one of those die-hard comic book freaks who wants every adaptation of his precious "graphic novels" to be pitch-perfect - in fact i've never even read modesty blaise - all i wanted was a decent movie to watch. but this wasn't it. the film feels half-finished, with a weak and very unexciting conclusion to a rather weak plot. it also takes its audience for idiots, explaining every tiny detail of the plot to us and showing flashbacks of things that happened three scenes ago (i guess they think we all have alzheimers).<br /><br />now i love a good b-movie - what's better than just turning your brain off and swallowing the cinematic equivalent of a calzone? - and "modesty" is directed by none other than scott spiegel, who brought us the wonderful splatter crap flick from dusk till dawn 2: texas blood money! i loved from dusk till dawn 2 because it brought everything a bad b-movie should bring to the table - nudity, gore, guns, you name it. "modesty" is just dull. the flashback concerning modesty's life isn't interesting. the acting isn't bad enough to be laughed at. in fact, i kinda liked nikolaj coaster-waldau's (hey buddy, pseudonyms are your friends!) performance as the baddie.<br /><br />so overall it's just lame. weak. uninspired. call it what you will. don't watch anything because tarantino presents it, people. this is just a very forgettable, half-hearted thriller, and it never tries to be more than that. allow me to round off this review with a very lame pun (seriously, even i'm cringing): my name is modesty: a modesty waste of time - 4/10