i have grown up reading modesty blaise, both the comics and the books, and she truly is a heroine to me. although not being a great fan of quentin tarantino i anyway was interested to hear a few years back that he was considering making a film of her: could he finally give modesty a nice big screen treatment she's worthy of? i heard of 'my name is modesty' a few months ago and checked the stars it had been given here, and wasn't too surprised to find out the score was not too high, since beloved characters often have hard time melting the fans' heart if not done exactly right. so i decided not to read any reviews and see the film instead, and well, i just finished watching it, and i'm stunned, and sad, and yeah, pretty furious, too. sad and furious of giving over an hour of my time seeing something so fabulous as modesty blaise-character being turned into a film that has nothing to give to a viewer or a fan.<br /><br />it seems that almost everything about this film is sub-par and unprofessional, although i must admit seeing some actors in other films earlier where they were fine so i can't blame them. but the screenplay and the directing... my god, why even make this kind of crap with production values slightly bigger than your average tv-film but done much worse? i don't know the background of this film and actually i really don't want to know, but i just can't help wondering that how on earth could tarantino with a straight face tell that he loves modesty and then put his name on this? he just lost a huge amount of respect in my eyes. the director was not the right man for this job and i can honestly thank him for ruining my night.<br /><br />i give this film 3 stars and those stars go to the actors and the technical quality which could've been worse. the other seven stars missing are what this film was not good at. oh well, hopefully at some point there will be a serious production of the modesty blaise movie that has some other goals than to steal money from the modesty fans. although if people like tarantino are the ones making the decisions i'm not holding my breath.