let me just say i loved the original boogeyman. sure, it's a flawed clich'ed 80s horror movie, but hey those types are fun to watch! and plus it gave us something a bit different. so i gladly bought it and to my surprise this movie came along with it (only copy they had actually) so i thought "eh, what the hell" and bought it. mistake #1. so that night i felt in the mood to watch a movie (i actually bought tons that day) and figured this was the shortest out of all the ones i bought so i'll just watch this and hit the sack. mistake #2. yes, i have heard how bad it was but i was willing to take a chance.<br /><br />so a few minutes into the movie and there's the first flashback. i think nothing of it at first. then the new footage with the prediction of the chick in the bathtub and i'm kinda liking the direction it's going in. then the next flashback which is a bit longer and i'm sitting there thinking "yes i've seen the first boogeyman! i know what happens so move along!" then the next one comes up and i figure screw it and fast forward through it. then the final one (maybe i fast forwarded through the explanation but why was she lying topless on the mirror? at least she could've shown them!) and i decide to fast forward through it and then the climax and the movie was over! wtf? what happened to the prediction stuff? what happened to the long hair dude (did he tap that or what?)? and more importantly what kind of weed was the writer and director smoking when making this awful pos??!!! and what was the point? was annie just having flashbacks of what happened in the first movie? or was the stuff from the first movie just happening at the same time as this? the latter could make sense because the stabbing of pantyhose face happened in 1978 according to the characters in this movie and it was 15 years later. wait a minute, no it wouldn't! because lacey (who the movie questionably renamed nancy! is uli too dumb to remember his movie characters' names?) would be 20 years old since she was 5 when that happened and not only is she married to someone who looks 30ish but also has a kid who looks around 7 and 10! did she get around during middle school? and also why would pantyhose be after annie? what connection does she even have with the characters of the original movie? and a big huge movie mistake i found in this movie is that when the doctor is writing in his notebook does anyone notice that he's just scribbling? wow, how professional, doc! so, what is the explanation for all of the questions i asked above? it's a pointless movie with no thought put into it at all! i will try to find a copy of the original movie that comes with just that movie and that's it (maybe a couple of extra features, any special edition of it yet?). then i will return this dvd and hopefully this review and all the others will prevent those who haven't seen it from seeing it thus making movie stores get rid of it and this movie may not exist anymore! please let that be so! sorry this review is so long. i'm just angry at this movie i had to vent somehow