grieving couple move to a cabin on a mountain after the loss of their daughter, discovering that there may be ghosts haunting the place, restless spirits of past occupants who committed suicide. julie pyke(cheri christian)blames husband allen(greg thompson)for the horrible death of their daughter due to leaving the door unlocked and the marriage has deteriorated because of it. julie remains in a zombie state, eliciting next to no emotion, remote and numb, only photographing a nearby abandoned prison, finding a startling image of a ghoul girl clinging to the bars of a cell. though allen doesn't see anything out of the ordinary, julie continues to take pictures and we can recognize that something isn't quite right. a local handyman, jim payne(scott hodges), a rather distant fellow who harbors a secret becomes a dangerous threat when it is revealed that his dead mother might have something to do with the haunts occurring to the pykes. meanwhile the neighbors who sold the pykes the cabin find themselves victims as well, alcoholic mr booth's abuse to his wife coming back to haunt him. allen will conduct an investigation into the history of his cabin, attempting to unravel the mystery about the place.<br /><br />plenty of ghosts moving about in the background in this somber supernatural tale with practically every character miserable. cheri christian remains so vacuous and lost, it's incredibly hard to connect with her despite the fact that you understand her plight. the acting, as is often mentioned, remains frustrating because none of the characters exactly are easy to latch on to. i guess it's supposed to be this way, under their circumstances, but the trouble i had was never being able to properly embrace the pykes due to their constant state of aloofness. cheri comes off as cold and detached, as i figure a mother would tend to be when you lose a child in such a way, but the icy nature left me pleading inside to embrace her which i just never could. i think the right performers, even if the characters are going through an emotional turmoil, can grab the hearts of their viewers, if a humanity reaches out to us..in this movie's case, the leads are unable to do so, for whatever reason. it could've been me, i don't know. i wanted to care for them, but nothing in the characters tugged on my heart strings. anyway, as the film continues, allen slowly uncovers certain truths and must defend himself against his wife who has convinced herself that their daughter is among them and she won't lose her little girl again. jim, the unstable neighbor who believes that to stop the hauntings plaguing the area he must kill the pykes, becomes a vital threat. the ghosts remain a central part of the movie, their presence, particularly jim's mother, established throughout, off in the distance. the finale reveals all of them as allen must find help for his wife while trying to thwart jim's mission. i had a hard time getting into this one due to my unease with the leads and their characters.