man, i really find it hard to believe that the wonderful alan ball had anything to do with this mess. having seen the first two episodes thus far, i think i can safely say this show isn't going to be on my must see list. it's just got so many things working against it.<br /><br />none of the actors cast are particularly good. anna paquin as the lead character sookie, is just awful. i remember her being better in a lot of other things i've seen her in so maybe it's just the writing. she's not really much fun to look at either, there are moments where to be honest she looks downright ugly. the actor who plays bill is marginally better, if only because his character is supposed to be sort of wooden and aloof. the other actors do their best but with the clich'e characters with difficult to perform accents they are given it's a tough job. tara is an absolute misery to watch, rutina wesley absolutely murders the accent. it's like nails on a chalkboard bad. almost as awful is nelsan ellis, it's difficult to understand what he's even saying sometimes. both his character as well as tara's also seem a bit racist to me. i don't know, having a character say 'whycome' on an hbo show that isn't the wire just seems a bit odd. rounding out the cast so far are sookie's doddering grandmother, her sex addict brother, and the only bit of genius casting i've seen in william sanderson as the sheriff.<br /><br />the story seems to be meandering towards it's destination at this point, with no real worry about keeping the viewer interested. the romance stuff is very dark shadow-sy. although this show ups the camp factor from something like those old dark shadows episodes times about ten. at times it seemed so campy to me, that i just have to assume it was intended to be. but unlike a show such as buffy, that pulled camp off masterfully, this show does not. out of place with the campiness is the extreme gore and graphic sex of the show. i'm not averse to either of these when they are done well, as they have in many other hbo shows but here at least they prolonged rough sex scenes involving jason stackhouse seem a bit over the top and pointless.<br /><br />about the only nice thing i can really think to say about this mess is that i liked the opening title sequence. hbo has had a string of bad luck with their shows lately, i hope they cancel this after the first season and try to get something better on the air.