this show had a lot of hype but i didn't know about it until the midseason (season 1). someone even recommended the show to me. but i decided that if i was going to watch it, i was going to wait until the end of the season so i could watch it in bulk. due to the show's format, i'm happy i waited. i imagine it would have been fairly annoying have nearly every episode end in the middle of some cliff hanger then have to wait another week to find out what happens in the next second of the story.<br /><br />somehow, this show has managed to throw in too much sex. jason will have sex with pretty much anything that moves. right after he finds out that one woman he had sex with was killed, he's in bed with another woman the next night! then tara and sam get it on, despite each of them knowing that sam is in love with sookie. and for some reason, sookie gets mad when she later finds out about it--even though she's sleeping with a vampire. one of the problems with the show, is that it doesn't do a good job of making you care about the characters. i really didn't care for jason at all. along with his endless pursuit of tale, he was rude to the people who actually were concerned for him. after a few episodes, i wouldn't have minded if he got killed somehow. for that reason, i was for the most part uninterested in the murders until sookie's grandmother became a victim (since the first two were more closely involved with jason).<br /><br />then once sookie and bill have sex, the story gets a few more subplots. tara's mother wants an exorcism, then the exorcist lady tries to convince tara that she should have one to remove her own demon. i wasn't so much bothered by the whole exorcism thing as i know there are some people who really believe in that stuff. however, they waste little time in showing that is it a farce right after tara spends about $1300 on exorcisms for her and her mother. at other points, some of the developments happen too fast. jason continues being a jerk, trying to sell his grandmother's stuff to buy vampire blood, which apparently is the new crack or something. in his search he finds this girl who will do v (vampire blood) with him. they get high, and within three days fall in love with each other and kidnap a vampire for a constant source of v. another example is when bill has to go to a vampire tribunal. he's only gone for two days before sookie starts to feel abandoned and start to wonder if he thinks "vampire politics" are more important than her.<br /><br />subtlety is not this show's strong suit. it doesn't take a genius to figure out something is going on with the local dog. although my assumption wasn't dead on, it wasn't that much of a surprise. but the finale two episodes was where it really got annoying as it just shoved all the developments in your face as if you couldn't possibly figure the out for yourself. when tara gets into the car accident, the naked lady's face with the pig is clearly shown, and was easily recognizable when she shows up at the jail for the bailout. as if that wasn't enough, they later show the lady again with the pig at her house. then it's time to wrap up the murder story. at the end of the penultimate episode, it's revealed that renee is not who he says he is and most likely is the killer. in the final episode, they shove renee being the killer in your face. sookie remarks that it's odd that renee's thoughts don't have an accent. i thought that was fine, as it adds to renee being a fraud. but the next scene is full of incriminating evidence against renee. they show that renee has the tape of maudette with the vampire and his fianc'ee finds a tape in one of renee's boxes about how to fake a cajun accent. at this point it was just ridiculous. i mean we get it!!! so blah blah blah stuff happens. bill almost kills himself while failing to save sookie, who still manages to kill renee. they start to set up season 2 by leaving unfinished issues. the naked pig lady and sam have a history, lafayette has gone missing and might have been killed. jason is in the process of being brainwashed into being a religious nut by some anti-vampire church--which makes me care about him even less.<br /><br />it's almost surprising to see how many people absolutely love this show. i think i just expected this show to be better. i'm interested in seeing what happens in season 2, but if i watch it, i'll most likely wait for the season completion.