ah, the spirit of '68. the streets of paris were running wild with rebellion, the hippies were high on the spirit of love. how was britain marking this age of radicalism and revolution? erm, by the looks of it, dear old blighty was focusing on making films about boys in boarding schools. if... contains the evil establishment. it contains the uprising of the oppressed. what it lacks in contrast to the parisien passion and the hippy headtripping is any sense of excitement, except in its all-out ammo-and-artillery fire ending.<br /><br />lindsay anderson's if... stars the ever-marvellous malcolm mcdowell as one of three private school pupils who decorate their dorm with photos of lenin and other left-wing radicals. it's clearly an anti-establishment movie in its depiction of the evil upper-class oiks who rule the roost and the antiquated autocratic practices of the pish-posh public school standard. what makes if... unusual though is that for all its radical sympathies, it doesn't explicitly give us any sense of great tension between human decency and the despotic school system, instead it just kind of floats: lacking in plot and lacking in personality.<br /><br />surrealist bits fade in and out occasionally and the film slips from black-and-white to colour again (is it due to the low budget or is it an arty expression?), but there is little of interest to speak of. all we get is the poignant denouement where the young rebels reach for their rifles and shoot down the shady overlords of the establishment. hooray! a revolution! at last something that demands a second thought unlike the rest of this dull exercise in boarding school daydreaming.<br /><br />if... could have been a powerful political statement, but as it is it drifts and only gathers any sense of direct interest at the end. instead of being a testament to the dissident zeitgeist of the late-sixties, it only succeeds in being a dazed document of upper-class british education. anarchy? apathy more like, the only man many viewers will want to stick it to after watching if... will be lindsay anderson.