first off i must stress how rare it is that i take the time to comment on a movie that i have seen, it takes a very special case for me to take the time and write about how i felt about a film. that said, of the hundreds of movies i have watched i have seen some of the most brilliant, shawshank, the scariest, the woman in black, the funniest, shark attack iii: megaladon, and now the worst: vampires vs. zombies.<br /><br />the first thing that must be said is that this movie is not funny! for those that are looking for a light hearted movie that will just be fun or at the very least so bad that it's funny, look elsewhere. it is true that a movie such as this is not trying to be subtle and brilliant, with a title such as this you should know what you're getting into. that said, there is no excuse for a movie to abandon any and every rule that governs the movie making world. this is not an argument between the traditional movie making process and newer and more "artsy" methods to creating a film, this is an argument between bad directors and companies being held accountable for making terrible movies.<br /><br />this movie suffers from the over used saying "i don't know where to start." truly everything about this movie is broken. from the acting and to the editing there is no reason any movie should ever fail to deliver a cohesive series of events such as vampires vs. zombies. some of the following problems are; 1. scene misfires- it's clear that the director, the camera crew and the actors were not on the same page. in one scene in particular the scene begins with the camera resting on the ground looking at the passenger side door of a car. you are expecting the person inside to get out, but there is a, and this is no exaggeration, 10 second, at least, delay between the camera comes on and the director says "action" to where anything happens on screen. the viewer is left staring at a car door for the entire time with no sound, no movement, just the stereotypical "dead air" that radio or tv commentators dread. where was the editing? 2. acting- a forgivable offense in most cases, you can't expect a movie like this to have oscar winners after all, but vampires vs. zombies takes bad acting to a whole other level. these "actors" were barely able to read their scripts obviously because anyone with any ability to read and to speak would have been able to pronounce the lines better than these fools. my only comparison for acting would have to be the opening scene from resident evil on playstation. but that acting was even better.<br /><br />3- story- wait, what? story? again you can't expect this to be the greatest story ever told, but is it too much to ask that we have some semblance of a narrative? why the vampires? who are the characters? who are the bad guys? are there good guys? why all the lesbians? but most importantly, what's the deal with the zombies? if you have seen this movie then you will understand what i mean, but to those who haven't i'll be plain, there are no zombies in this movie aside from maybe five minutes of it. it was almost as if the director forgot about the name of the movie and was forced to throw some zombies in without explanation at the very end.<br /><br />there's so much more, but i hope i've done enough to keep anyone from seeing this movie.