although it really isn't such a terribly movie (especially considering it was made directly for tv-distribution), it'll be very difficult to point out one aspect in "bloodsuckers" that is actually original or refreshing. vampires in space isn't exactly a new formula, and even after so many movies dealing with these monsters in this particular setting, still no one seems to realize it's an incredibly stupid premise that can't possibly result in a halfway decent horror movie. "bloodsuckers" even goes one step further and shamelessly imitates every imaginable motion picture that either revolves on vampires and intergalactic warfare. the plot and characters are mainly stolen directly from john carpenter's "ghosts of mars" and james cameron's "aliens", as a crew of futuristic vampire hunters are crusading through space and regularly holding to eliminate a mutated species that peculiarly named themselves after notorious horror icons, like the voorhees and the leatherfaces. the good guys are a bunch of pathetic stereotypes, constantly dealing with clich'ed issues and endlessly arguing about dreadfully unimportant matters. captain damian is the unpopular rookie, who'll really have to prove his leadership capabilities now after being more or less responsible for the death of the previous (and far more loved) captain churchill. the other annoying characters include a typical cowboy-style and trigger happy macho pilot, a tough female warrior with more balls than any of the males on board (she's of asian descent, like the girl in "aliens" was latino) and the army's most valuable secret weapon: a blade-girl! quintana is a beautiful and deadly vampire who chose the side of humans. she can spot enemies when they're still light-years away and she can also do wickedly sexy things with someone's wet dreams. they eventually all learn to work as a team when forced to face the ultimate vampire-meanie: michael ironside (in yet another downgrading role). "bloodsuckers" is an irredeemably stupid film, but it manages to entertain as long as it features gory killings, infantile dialogs and ott make-up effects. it only gets intolerably boring when the frustrated soldiers blame the captain for the umpteenth time and bla bla bla. this film is a non-stop series of lame clich'es and uncreative ideas, but at least it's watchable.