man has been to the farthest reaches of the earth and now he is traveling to new worlds. but with new worlds come ancient evils... the vampires of space. and not just a handful but entire tribes. in this film (which i saw as "bloodsuckers" but i guess also goes as "vampires wars") we see what happens when the imperialist earthlings meet the imperialist vampires.<br /><br />i will make this review very short because it's undeserving of a good review. the best i can say for this film is it has a good cast of b-list and upcoming stars. natassia malthe was quintana, and was far more attractive here than in "bloodrayne 2". michael ironside is muco, and is always a fan favorite (as i say, he's the poor man's jack nicholson). and we even get carrie-ann fleming as "damian's wife", who horror fans will now recognize as the eponymous jenifer from dario argento's "jenifer". so this movie, as bad as it is, isn't without some names attached... but the same can be said of uwe boll's work.<br /><br />the concept of the military tracking and killing vampires in space isn't necessarily a bad idea, but it easily falls into the realm of "cheese" and this film falls hard. the acting, especially from the vampires, is over the top and i just didn't find the explanations of their existence very convincing. worst of all, the vampire tribes have the names "voorhess" and "leatherfaces". i understand this was supposed to be a clever reference for the horror fans, but it wasn't clever at all. it just sounded dumb and out of place (unlike the much more subtle references in james gunn's "slither", such as naming stores after lesser-known horror directors).<br /><br />that's all i want to say. if you can stand lots of cheese (on this day i couldn't and i'm from wisconsin) and want to see average actors with poor costumes fight vampires in space (although "space" looks a lot like any other forest on earth) check this one out, if you can find it. i don't personally recommend this when you can watch other cheesy vampires films (jon carpenter's "vampires") or other cheesy space movies. or maybe even some good ones. but, hey, do your thing.