i saw this a couple of nights back, not expecting too much and unsurprisingly it didn't deliver anything too exciting. the plot set up of a crew of vampire hunters (v-san, for vampire sanitation), going around in their spaceship periodically killing space vamps and rescuing people, is quite sound and had the film been handled better it might well have been something quite ace. unfortunately after a fairly decent opening the sense of actual quality starts to drain away from the film, leaving something behind that, though vacantly watchable, is quite laughably bad. i don't expect anything too special from these films that pop up on the sci fi channel and at least this wasn't one of their creature features with an atrocious cgi beast shambling about, but it was still pretty bad, mostly due to the writing and acting, but with a sterling contribution to the overall badness made by the horrible music. when the film opted just for a typical science fiction sounding weird noises approach to the soundtrack it did ok, but all too often hilariously bad soft rock intruded and pitched scenes into silliness. i would have tolerated the general cheesy acting and writing more were it not for the choice of music, which was a serious miscalculation, turning things from cheesy to lamely comical. of the acting, dominic zamprogna was ok but bland as the nominal hero, whilst leanne adachi was pretty irritating as the tough girl of the vamp busting team and aaron pearl played another member who wasn't well written or interesting enough to make an impression. though she didn't seem that good at the acting lark natassia malte did well through having a less irritating character than the others, and the fact that she is seriously nice to look at. the only serious name in the cast is michael ironside and he is underused though he does nicely, pretty amusing in a manner one suspects was intentional. he seems to have fun and earn his paycheck and his role is entertaining. the effects are ok on the whole, they are at least of the standards of the average science fiction tv show, and there are also a few scenes of blood splatter and a bit of fun gore as well. things move along nicely, and i almost feel harsh rating this film badly, but then i remember bursting into laughter at regular intervals and realising that unless the film is an intentional comedy, which i don't think it is, then it simply doesn't succeed. too much is lame, daft, unconvincing, its an ok effort i guess but it didn't appeal to me. only give it a go if you really dig sci fi trash or unintended chuckles i'd say.