although the actors were good, specially fritzi haberland as the blind lilly, the film script is obsessively pretentious and completely arbitrary. a famous theatre director (hilmir snaer gudnason), becoming blind after a car accident, is on the run for himself and his destiny. lilly, being sightless since her birth, is teacher for blind persons, and wants to make him "seeing" again. (blind persons are seeing with their fingers, nose and ears.) here this movie is becoming a roadmovie; and the longer the road becomes, the closer their relation develops, which was predictable since the beginning of the film. the theatre director is on the road to his mother (jenny gr"ollmann). his mother is living somewhere in russia on the sea and making artistic installations - of course, what should she do other! - and she is still living, because she is waiting his son, to die. my god! this are destinies!<br /><br />finally the son arrived! mum is celebrating a big party! at the beach. wind is blowing and a pianist is playing on a real piano in the middle of a dune. yes, they are celebrating her farewell. the son arrives just in time. mother can finally swallow the pills administered by a pretty nurse. now a great artist can die in the arms of her great artist son, speaking sad contemplations about live in perfect german, while the son is answering with a rough accent. because the son is unable to see, he is not falling in love to the nurse, - the film script would have become also too complicate! - but is looking for lilly on the way back to home.<br /><br />parallel to this roadmovie the sister of lilly, staying at home is asking a gawky schoolmate to deflower her, who has first to booze himself to courage. the occasion is favourable. because mum (tina engel) is on journey together with the lover of lilly, paul (harald schrott). they are after lilly, to bring her back. paul and the mother of lilly are not falling in love, because the film script would have become too complicate. the film script missed to make out of paul something exceptional too. i would suggest an architect or a pianist, or course a famous one! when they finally find lilly, they want to convince her, to come back to paul, because he has two eyes to see and is able to care for her. but lilly felt in love to his pupil, the theatre director; did i mention, that he was even a famous theatre director?<br /><br />this is german film art! as you may see in this pretentious production, that the german film subsidy fund is not always producing good films, because they subsidy just such kind of pseudo intellectual films. this film is really embarrassing. i have the impression, that the film script has been cobbled together from some highbrows in coffee shops and restaurants. everybody is entitled to contribute with an idea. probably also til schweiger has contributed with some intellectual flash of wit, being a co-producer. i was reminded by this film script to an other german film of absolute painfulness: "barfuss" - already the spelling of the title is not right! "barfuss" dvd cover writes proudly: "a til schweiger film". this film got also subsidies of filmstiftung nrw, filmf"orderung hamburg and the ffa.<br /><br />please don't spoil your time with this film! there are really good films in germany. watch out for film directors like marcus h. rosenm"uller, joseph vilsmaier, hans steinbichler, hans-christian schmid, faith akin ...