another day stuck indoors, another film to watch. having finally completed my christmas shopping yesterday on a cold and foggy afternoon, i had nowhere else to go to escape "the land that time forgot". or rather, i had nothing else to watch.<br /><br />doug mcclure, that bastion of leading-man actors, leads a handful of allied sailors sunk by a u-boat somewhere in the atlantic in 1916. capturing the u-boat (in a scene that defies logic and reason), they eventually find themselves on a strange island, apparently untouched by human hands. together, they explore the land and discover dinosaurs and neanderthals! can they escape before becoming a permanent resident of the land that time forgot? <br /><br />despite being made few years before "star wars", these films are light-years apart in terms of special effects. the model shots are little better than anything you would expect to see in an episode of gerry anderson's "stingray" and the creatures aren't much better either. when the t-rex (i'm assuming that's what it was) was killed, it fell in the same way that zombies do when you kill them - frozen in mid-walk and collapsing, arms and legs held out like a sleeping cow that's been pushed over. granted, the sets aren't too bad but the lousy acting and endless explosion noises (which all sound the same) do their best to ruin credibility and your enjoyment of the picture as a whole. characters are neither believable or worthy of your sympathy as they fire their guns at seemingly anything that moves. in the end, i just didn't care if they got off the island or not and by the time the end came, i was more relieved than entertained.<br /><br />costumes are authentic enough until the cavemen arrive and it is bear-skin bikinis and loin cloths all round. and although it was fairly obvious from their actions, you wouldn't have known that some characters were german from their accents. the whole thing just lacked some polish and cohesion, leaving the viewer confused in places and nonplussed in others. overall, this film barely registers a ripple of excitement these days although you can find some small amusement in trying to work out where colin farrell is. i spotted his name in the credits and half expected a baby to appear with an irish accent and suspect facial hair. oh well. nothing particularly great here to see then, but just about ok if you're eating your lunch and the weather is preventing further activity.