yesterday was earth day (april 22, 2009) in the us and other countries, and i went to see the full-feature movie-version of "earth" by disneynature. i guess, like the auto manufacturers, disney is trying to convince us that they care about the planet. maybe they really do care about the planet, i don't know, but i don't think it warrants a special unit with the word "nature" in it. i do know that my youngest daughter loves mickey mouse, and who am i to tell a one-year old my personal feelings about disney? <br /><br />aside from incredible cinematography, it was a typical disney disappointment for me. preceded by a half-dozen disney movie trailers, rife with disney clich'e ("circle of life", "falling with style"), over-dramatic music, recycled footage (disney claims "40% new footage"). i was even starting to think that james earl jones narration is getting a bit boring. i like james earl jones, but his work for disney and morgan freeman doing every warner brothers narrative starts to wear thin. i really think that disney bought some bbc nature photography that was so spectacularly done, they felt it would sell itself if they slapped some orchestral music and recognizable sound-bites on it.<br /><br />and what is disney's obsession with showing predators chasing and killing baby animals? there were a half-dozen such scenes, complete with bleating youngsters on the verge of getting their throats ripped out. i think disney needs to recognize that animals have a rich and interesting life outside of life and death struggles that appeal to the action-movie oriented teenagers that got dragged to this film by their parents. i was also cognizant of how disney stopped well short of implying that man had anything to do with the climate change. are they so afraid of the tiny minority of deniers that they think it's still a controversial subject? <br /><br />i recommend skipping this one and renting the blue planet dvds on netflix. nature films seem to be best done by the british at the moment.