this movie can be labeled as a study case. it's not just the fact that it denotes an unhealthy and non-artistic lust for anything that might be termed as caco-imagery. the author lives with the impression that his sanctimonious revolt against some generic and childishly termed social ills ("moldavia is the most pauper region of europe", "i don't believe one iota in the birds flu", "romanian people steal because they are poor; europeans steal because they are thieves") are more or less close to a responsible moral and artistic attitude - but he is sorely off-target! <br /><br />what daneliuc doesn't know, is that it's not enough to pose as a righteous person - you also need a modicum of professionalism, talent and intelligence to transpose this stance into an artistic product. fatefully, "the foreign legion" shows as much acumen as a family video with uncle gogu drunkenly wetting himself in front of the guests. the script is chaotic and incoherent, randomly bustling together sundry half-subjects, in an illiterate attempt to suggest some kind of a story. the direction is pathetically dilettante - the so-called "director" is unable to build up at least a mediocre mise-en-scene, his shots are annoyingly awkward, and any sense of storytelling shines by total absence. (of course, any comment is forced to stop at this level; it would be ridiculous to mention concepts as "cinematographic language", "means of expression" or "style"). the acting is positively "c^antarea rom^aniei" ("romania's chant") level, with the exception of... paradoxically, the soccer goal-keeper necula raducanu, who is very natural, and nicodim ungureanu. oana piecnita seems to have a genuine freshness, but she is compromised by the amateurish directions given by daneliuc.<br /><br />the most serious side of this offense to decent cinema is the fact that the production received a hefty financing from the national budget, via c.n.c. (the national cinematography council). the fact that long-time-dead old dinosaurs like daneliuc are still thirsty for the government udder is understandable (in a market-driven economy, they would be instantly eliminated through natural selection). but the corruption of the so-called "jury" that squanders the country's money on such ridiculously scabrous non-art, non-cinema and non-culture belongs to the criminal field.