i guess i only have myself to blame for the gigantic disillusion that is "entrails of a virgin". you already know not to expect a cinematic masterpiece when you see a juicy and proudly promoted title like this and the first impression only gets extra confirmed when noticing the film is a mid-80's production from japan. now, there are quite a lot of demented and sick filmmakers active in japan, but kazuo komizu surpasses them all with his thoroughly depraved and sickening trilogy revolving on nothing but aggressive sex and the sadistic abuse of young girls. not even attempting to tell a story, "entrails of a virgin" simply presents a hodgepodge of un-arousing semi-pornographic sex and truly poor gore-effects that wouldn't even please the most undemanding fan of cheesy 80's horror. images of a bunch of photographers and their fashion models are inexplicably intercut with scenes of a filthy pervert having crude sex with a seemly under-aged girl. he dumps her not even a minute after climaxing (typical) and she begs him to stay, even if she has to share him with other women. i don't get it. is this supposed to represent a general male fantasy? because it's really clich'ed and wrongful. anyways, back to the bunch of horny photographers and docile models. surprised by upcoming fog on their way home, the group entrenches themselves in an abandoned country house where they have more appalling sex and eventually fall victim to a ridiculous sex-demon who kills them all. the acting performances are amateurish, the dialogs inane and primitive and komizu's direction is weak and uninspired. i can tolerate all that, including the woman-unfriendly portrayal of sex, but i came too close to turning the film off during the indescribably mean-spirited wrestling sequence. one of the males brutally hits, kicks and throws around one of the girls and calls her a filthy whore until she literally pees her panties and cries with agony. this sequence is, in my humble opinion, the absolute low-point of asian exploitation cinema. one to avoid and maybe even boycott.