maybe it was the title, or the trailer (certainly not the interview on the dvd, which is with the director as he keeps saying "hi, kids" into the camera like a buffoon), but i had expectations for entrails of a virgin to be at least a bit of sleazy fun with some good sex scenes and brutal, bloody killings by a weird japanese penetrator. turns out it's way too sleazy for its own good, or bad, or whatever. there's a problem- and one can see this also in the italian sexploitation flick porno holocaust, similar to this in many respects- in not having balance to the sex and violence. too much sex and it will turn into a prototypical porno, and not even with much production quality in comparison with most professional porno movies! and with the killing scenes, there has to be at least a little tack, and maybe just a smidgen of ingenuity, in creating the creature/killer/whatever. entrails of a virgin has neither. it's safe to say it's a pretty soulless movie, even if isn't one of the very worst ever made- it's there just for horn-dog japanese fetishists to get off on girls in trouble and men who have all their brains in their 'other' heads.<br /><br />in this case, we're given a photo team where the guys are taking some shots of some girls, nothing too salacious, and then by way of a dense fog they stay off at some house one night and are picked off one by one by "a murderer" as he's credited. first off, the director kazuo 'gaira' komizu decides he has to put in a quota of random sex scenes early on- we get spliced in (or phoned in, take your pick) clips of one of the photographers having sex with one or more of the girls elsewhere. it looks like it's from another movie. then once settled into the house, there's a 'wrestling' scene that's poorly choreographed and shot (yeah, we really need to see him 'all' there), and then on to the rape and killings. first the rape, by the photographers, who promise the girls some jobs for their time. then the murderer, who like d'amato's creature is simply covered in mud and given a stupid facial, and who for an unknown reason kills the men and/or rapes the women one by one.<br /><br />now, the latter of those, taken by themselves, should be considered the highlights of the movie. this is like saying, however, that the cro^utons are the best part of a wretchedly tasting salad. an eye-gouging scene, a spike thrown like an olympic event (that scene, actually, is kind of cool), and finally the entrailing of the overly sex-crazed girl, whose inconsequential name i can't remember. even *this* becomes disappointing just by not being correct to the title! on top of this, the sex scenes, which become tedious through 'gaira' and his indulgence in long-takes-without-cutaways where everything by the japanese censors is blurred anyway, are dubbed over by the actors (you'd think that they seem to be enjoying themselves enough, hence the need to let them 'speak' for themselves). but the overall feeling from entrails of a virgin is that of a lumpy one, where it's just there to be gawked at and without a shred of suspense or true horror (watch as the last girl left alive, the virgin of the picture, tries to stop the murderer from getting to her, which lasts five minutes as she keeps throwing sticks at him!) you just want it to be done with, for the 'i hate women' mantra to ease up or be rid altogether.