satan's little helper is one of the better b horror movies i have seen. when i say better i mean the story. the film hatches a new plot, something that's not so clich'e in the horror genre - something fresh. but there are also some ridiculous questions that come along with it. questions you will be asking yourself throughout the movie.<br /><br />the film first caught my attention while i was cruising the horror section in hmv. i was tired of all the so called "terrifiying" hollywood blockbusters and wanted something different. the cover art for satan's little helper immediately caught my attention. as you can see, the image draws you in - it's chilling! i knew it was a straight to dvd release - but i took a chance. i mean, i just seen "boogey man" the night before - so it couldn't get any worse! after i watched the movie, i was semi-satisfied. i loved the plot of the movie. it was really creepy how the killer was pretending to be the little boys friend, so he could kill. in some sick deranged way, he actually thought he and the little boy would become partners - a duo of terror. it was a great idea to set the film on halloween night. this way, no one would think anything of a masked man beside a little kid. they would simply think he was his guardian. but, this is also where the "plot holes" begin to surface.<br /><br />if your son came home with a "friend" he met trick or treating - that's fine. you wouldn't think anything of it - if he was 9!, or round about the same age as him. if however, he appeared with a strange man in a mask, you would be startled and protective of your child. you would ask the man to remove his mask and identify himself. you would ask why he is with your son. he doesn't know him. you would tell him to please leave. he isn't a family friend. he's a stranger. now, we're supposed to teach our child not to talk to strangers. in this case, the mum is completely fine with it. huh? they never seem to think it's a tad odd that the "man" doesn't speak - at all. gruanted they think it's the daughters boyfriend, but after 10 minutes of not talking you would pull the mask off and ask him why he's not saying a word.<br /><br />the film goes down hill from there. the thing that got me the most was, all the mum said was "do you want some cider?". i can't count how many times she says this in the movie. it's like, oh you're dying - we have cider though, it's all good!! the movie started promising, and failed to deliver. it was more of a horror/comedy, and even as that it fails to deliver. i guess you could call it a "dud","flop" etc..<br /><br />the best thing about the movie is the cover art. though, something tells me that's not worth the 12 dollars!