i'm going to say first off that i have given this film a 3 out of 10 after some thought. i was going to give it a straight out 1 but it got a couple extra points for the body count. but that would be about it. let me explain. i paid literally lb1 for this dvd in a supermarket because i tend to have a lot of faith in bargain horror flicks, b-movies especially. but if this film was aiming for b status as i suspect it was for a number of reasons (which i'll touch on in a sec) then it failed magnificently. not only did it shoot for b and miss, it landed somewhere around f. this film had so many opportunities to be good and it pretty much failed on all accounts. i say above that it's likely this film was aiming for b status and it seems to try and achieve this by trying to blend humour with horror, which can either be very good or very bad. for example, later freddy films (dream warriors onwards) are all about freddy's style and nose-thumbing, which works out great! but this film completely bombed in that respect because the times where they tried to inject humour were mostly just stupid. i will admit though that towards the beginning of the film the humour was good. in fact, for about half an hour i liked this film and was prepared to congratulate myself on another good find. but what really killed this film for me was the inappropriate kills. for instance, when 'satan' smashes the cat against the board and writes 'boo' with it's blood using its body as a brush. or when 'satan' slams the door into the helpless disabled elderly woman. now i'm not usually too against senseless kills in films-hey, thats the point, right? but in those two cases i just found it grossly offensive and unnecessary to anything in the film-plot especially. for me, the film went downwards from then on. one major bad point about this film is that i hated every character in it. the kid, dougie was just ridiculously annoying!!! i'm at a loss to explain how he could possibly write off all those bodies and people being killed in front of his eyes as a trick! i mean, come on!!! i completely understand that to be in a horror film a character does have to be somewhat stupid, like running upstairs when you should blatantly be running out of the house screaming for help, but this kid took the biscuit! i wanted to kill him myself by the end of it! it was completely unbelievable and if i had to hear him say 'duh!' one more time i was going to bang my head against a wall-because thats what watching this film felt like. why didn't i just turn the film off? mainly because i honestly believe an ending can sometimes redeem a film. but i was wrong in this case. the ending did not redeem this film, it further irritated the hell out of me and was inadequate to the plot line. i get it already! the killer is always going to come back dressed as someone else, be welcomed into the house by the stupid kid and go on a killing spree again because no one suspects him in that costume! i get it! this film made me physically angry because it was so stupid! and if by some foul mistake you do end up watching this film, watch out for the intestines. frankly, if that guy actually did have intestines that looked like that, i'd be surprised he wasn't already dead, let alone until someones rips them out and ties them to a chair.<br /><br />in fact, i'll even go so far as to say that the only character i liked at all in this film was actually the killer. purely because when his 'comedy routine' worked, it did work. all in all, the plot line of this film dragged anything that might have been good down. why was the killer killing? i don't know. i can live without knowing who he actually was, thats fairly typical, but without some kind of motive - hell i don't know, i'd settle for him having a bad halloween as a kid! -it just seems more than senseless, just stupid. stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid. in fact, i hated this film so much that i specifically registered with imdb just so i could comment on it. save your money, save your sanity. stay away from it!