a reporter, craig milford, who works for the james keller public telecommunication center, has an interview with a german professor of a floridian university, who made an unknown creature based upon some substance of meteor(s). but then a man named anderson, who is trying to control the whole planet with the creature, and his man kill the professor and his assistants and plunder the creature. so craig and his new female psychic partner, joanna fitzgerald, who can communicate not only with human being but also with alien friend(s) of the creature, begin to find the creature and try to send it to an alien spaceship... this film has some great casts and staffs. for instance, it has the actor, david warbeck of the beyond, the actress, laura trotter of nightmare city, the special visual effects creator, sergio stivaletti of dario argento's masterpieces, and the director (and also the story- writer), alberto de martino of the man with icy eyes and the killer is on the phone. and these talented people make an incredibly bad film, named, nothing but this miami golem which is essentially a confusedly combined film of close encounters of the third kind with e.t.the extra-terrestrial. and this not-only-confused-but-also-crammed film has something worth; genetic engineering with psychical research. consequently the film has at least one scientific and/or technical flaw; genetic engineering and psychical research are never compatible. (strangely enough, regarding this strangely childish combination of genetic engineering and psychical research, the leading character, craig, himself says there must be a better explanation to the short-haired psychic, joanna. but, after all, the whole story of the film doesn't and can't present any kind of better explanation.) in addition, this film has something more laughable; its problematic music. what the composer, who is credited as robert marry, provides is nothing but the strangely insistent beverly-hills-cop-tasted music. i don't want to say this italianised theme of beverly hills cop per se is particularly bad music, but i have to say it seems to be manifestly clear the music does not have the fitness for this film per se at all. indeed just who can think beverly hills cop has the compatibility with genetic engineering and/or psychical research?