as a fan of science-fiction movies, i have been aware of the matrix since its release in 1999. from the little bit i would allow people to tell me about it, i assumed it was highly original and sophisticated. i am also a devotee of alice in wonderland. i could never quite figure out how i missed the matrix when it was released. with the imminent release of the matrix reloaded, it was time to buy the dvd and watch it.<br /><br />the disappointment was too great. the premise of the matrix (the controlling device as opposed to the movie) was clever. the philosophical premise of parallel worlds, alternate realities is shopworn. however, i could still have bought into the film, as science-fiction, if it stayed firmly in that genre. unfortunately, it turned into a standard, "will they or won't they escape, break through, rescue those in need of rescue, etc." to make matters worse, it turned out to be another martial arts exercise. the problem is that science-fiction and martial arts films are really two different types. to the purest, the devotee of one or the other, mixing the two doesn't work. it is like mixing science-fiction with romance. you can have one or the other, but not both in the same film, or, at least, not both to the same extent in the same movie.<br /><br />if there were such problems with the matrix, the matrix reloaded really compounded the problems. at least thirty minutes of the film were either martial arts sequences or the protracted car-chase. (this observation ignores the question, made in every professional, negative review of the movie: if neo could do the superman thing, why bother to fight at all? the answer, of course, is that's what draws the young, male demographic group into the theatre.) then there is the "redemption through love" aspect. that plot device was worn out by richard wagner over a hundred years ago. it was actually handled better by him in die gotterdammerung.<br /><br />so where does that leave those who saw the matrix reloaded. martial arts fans probably groaned through the trite, but arcane sci-fi philosophizing. science fictions fans were wondering why they were sitting through a kung-fun fest. most of the males in the audience where probably bored by the silly romance aspect of the film.<br /><br />just what are you supposed to be getting for your bucks when you see the matrix franchise films: science fiction, martial arts, or soap opera? a bit of each does not make for a whole lot more of any of them, nor for a satisfying film for the afficionados of each.