the robin cook novel "coma" had already been turned into a pretty successful movie in 1978. a couple of years later it was the turn of another robin cook bestseller to get the big screen treatment , but in the case of "sphinx" virtually everything that could go wrong does go wrong. this is a dreadful adventure flick consisting of wooden performances, stupid dialogue, unconvincing characters and leaden pacing. the only reason it escapes a 1-out-of-10 rating is that the egyptian backdrop provides infinitely more fascination than the story itself. hard to believe franklin j. schaffner (of "patton" and "planet of the apes") is the director behind this debacle.<br /><br />pretty egyptologist erica baron (lesley anne-down) is on a working vacation in cairo when she stumbles across the shop of antiques dealer abdu-hamdi (john gielgud). hamdi befriends erica and is impressed by her enthusiasm and knowledge. consequently, he shows her a beautiful and incredibly rare statue of pharoah seti i that he is keeping secretly in his shop. the very existence of the statue arouses intense excitement in erica, for it could provide vital clues in locating seti i's long-lost tomb, a prize as great as the discovery of tutankhamun's tomb in 1922. before hamdi can tell erica any more he is brutally murdered in his shop, with erica watching in silent terror as he meets his grisly end. afraid yet tantalised by what she has seen, erica attempts to track down the treasure. she finds herself helped and hindered in her quest by various other parties, none of whom are truly trustworthy. for one there is yvon (maurice ronet), seemingly a friend but perhaps a man with sinister ulterior motives? then there is akmed khazzan (frank langella), an egyptian for whom erica feels a certain attraction but who may also be hiding dangerous secrets from her.<br /><br />the biggest problems with "sphinx" generally result from its total disregard for plausibility. down couldn't be less convincing as a female egyptologist 