i agree with the majority of the comments i have seen written. i grew up watching seseme street before a lot of the people who have written comments were even born. i was born in 1964, so i was 5-yrs-old when seseme street was introduced to television. the show taught me my numbers (the count), spelling (the muppet), and about life. i liked all the old characters (big bird, oscar, grover, and cookie monster) and don't quite understand why they had to change. i understand that everything has to change in some way, but to make cookie monster into a "veggie monster" to promote healthy eating. the show has introduced new characters and monsters since it's inception, why not make a separate "veggie monster" that talks/discusses the benefits of eating a varied diet with cookie monster. but, back to my point. i grew up watching the very beginning of seseme street, my now 20 yr-old daughter grew up watching ss with me along side her, and we discussed mr. hooper dying, although he had died prior to her being born, as well as other topics on the show. i saw the episode as a older child, and still remember how well they portrayed the event, much like real life. and i'm sure it hit the cast extremely hard as all deaths and losses effect families. you saw this on the show and it allowed parents and children to discuss very difficult events. the show has talked about traditional families, adoptive families and combined families. it's one of the few shows that actually discusses these scenarios. i now have a 5 yr-old daughter who really doesn't watch ss. i've tried to watch the show a couple of times, but, it really is not what it used to be. the elmo 1/2 hr with mr. noodle is absolutely ridiculous. like many people have said, it doesn't teach anything. it's geared for the less than 18 month old (maybe), and isn't even funny. i always prided myself on watching ss as a child, teen, and adult with my own child. now on my second go-round, i really have a hard time watching ss. the topics that were discussed: death, marriage, non-traditional families, new to neighborhoods, moving away were related to children and adults in a manner easy for 2-99 year old to understand and relate to. now, there are no concepts taught, minimal counting, only the occasional mention of the alphabet. it is not the same ss, from an original watcher of the show. please if any producers from the show read these comments, return the show to its foundation. new concepts have never been a problem with ss, they just used to have a better way to incorporate them into the show.