if you want to see a movie that terribly mixes up one latin country with any other latin country, "the celestine prophecy" is a good example: 1. per'u, not even in its most violent times, has not shown polices or soldiers as much as in this film. this showed a country like el salvador when civil war. since i'm a peruvian who lives in lima (the capital of per'u), it was too funny to me seeing the police guards here, there and everywhere. 2. if you have a car in per'u, and you want (or need) to be a taxi driver, just post a sticker with the word "taxi" on the front glass of your car and you can drive freely in peruvian streets (there are taxi companies, but their rates are quite expensive). no need of yellow or a black/white squared band on the doors of your car. well, taxis in this film have that band, somethin that you will never see in per'u. 3. peruvian people are not caribbean styled clothing. for example, when a taxi driver comes out, he was wearing a "guayabera" (cuban shirt), a white hat, and 40's mustaches, like clark gable. not one peruvian man looks like that, please! per'u is not the caribbeans! 4. a scene shows a woman on a street with a quite long skirt, like the typical folklore dresses in latin america. take a walk anywhere in per'u, and you'll never find a woman wearing like that, unless you are watching a typical dance. 5. cast could've been better: i can not deny h'ector elizondo is a great actor, but he's not a latin actor (his father was basque and his mother from puerto rico, but he was born in new york) and his spanish is not fluent. it's notorious spanish is not his first language. there are dozens of very good latin actors who could've performed as cardinal sebasti'an. petrus antonius (general rodr'iguez) was also a bad choice for a "latin police officer". it was so funny seeing elizondo and petronius in general rodr'iguez's office. they looked like two english or american students in a spanish class, making their best effort in order to pronounce spanish. unsuccessfully, of course. castulo guerra was better in his spanish. a "peruvian" officer, who announced cardinal sebasti'an, spoke a quite funny spanish too. there are very good peruvian actors, like augusto alvarez-calder'on and christian meier (just to mention two out of many peruvian actors), who could've performed with excellence. 6. i admit that a fictional movie can let itself a license inventing cities or, even, countries. but, please, when creating a name, be careful when using a foreign language: the town portrayed in this movie should've been called "vicente" and not "viciente". vicente is a male name, and viciente has never been used. 7. i disagree one user, who says that this movie was filmed on locations in per'u. not one location is peruvian, although the production has used in excess posters showing "inca kola", the peruvian soda. as not few american films, this one must have used any latin country. after all, for american producers or directors, a latin place is identical to any other latin place. 8. in the first scenes, when john (matthew settle) flies to per'u, he's supposed to arrive to the only one international airport in per'u: jorge ch'avez airport (in lima, the capital). actually, believe me, it must be any airport in the world, but peruvian airport. and, of course, in peruvian airports there are no military or police guards. 9. when this john takes a room in a peruvian hotel, this one has a fan and, obviously has no air conditioner. please, this doesn't happen in no hotel in per'u(and other latin countries), unless you get a 1 star hotel! 10. the rebels who fight against the government are... !colombians! their accent was, with no doubt, from colombia. for casting them, the producers should've hired peruvian actors. in few words, it would've been cheaper filming in per'u.<br /><br />i could go on with more examples out of this film, that led me to give it a "1" (awful) vote, but i fell asleep after about 20 minutes from its beginning. but dear producers: it's not a tragedy: there are many worse movies with not few mistakes. just let's remember "indiana jones and the kingdom of the crystal skull" and indescribable disney's "the emperor's new groove". the list of bad films could be endless...