disney has now made straight-to-video sequels to a good bunch of their many animated features. two of these were made for their 1991 classic, "beauty and the beast". well, these ones aren't really sequels, as they are both set in between the events of the first film. the first of these two straight-to-video films was "beauty and the beast: the enchanted christmas", which seems to be disliked by quite a few fans of its theatrical predecessor, but i think that can usually be expected with sequels. however, this second one, "belle's magical world", is definitely inferior.<br /><br />the film features three short stories, all of which take place while belle is in the castle, and the place is under the spell of the enchantress. the first is "the perfect word", where a misunderstanding at the table between belle and the beast leads to trouble, and neither wants to be the first to apologize. the next story is "fifi's folly", where fifi and lumiere's fifth anniversary is coming up, and lumiere is unprepared, so belle helps him. however, fifi sees lumiere practicing romance with belle, and thinks they're actually in love. the film ends with "the broken wing". in this story, belle takes care of a bird with a broken wing, but a bird in the castle will probably mean trouble if the beast finds out, as he hates birds! <br /><br />the plot description i gave is for the original vhs version of disney's third "beauty and the beast" movie. apparently, in the dvd version, there is another story added called "mrs. potts's party", but i've only seen the original version. however, since i highly doubt that one story would stand out as a classic over the rest, i see no point in watching the special edition. anyway, the first thing i will say about "belle's magical world" is that the animation is very 2-dimensional compared to what we're used to from disney, which would obviously disappoint many people. i didn't like "beauty and the beast: the enchanted christmas" that much, but you certainly can't say the same about its animation. i'm sure the stories in "belle's magical world" could entertain many kids (mostly younger ones, i think), and each story has a moral, so they could also teach them some valuable lessons. however, for adults, the film really doesn't have a lot. i personally didn't find any good humour in it, found that the constant conflict between belle and the beast got tiring, and the stories did not impress me too much at all in any way (they're not very well written). in "the perfect word", the way belle says to the beast, "you're acting rude... and foolish!" is a bit cheesy, and i think there are quite a few other cheesy moments in these stories.<br /><br />by the time this straight-to-video movie first came out, i was around eleven or twelve years old. i don't know what i would have thought of it at the time, as i had lost interest in disney by then, and it would be years before i would gain any of that interest back. even when this movie was first released, i think i was a bit past the age group it was aimed at. i never saw "beauty and the beast: the enchanted christmas" until a couple months ago, but unlike that film, i never even heard of this one until recently, i think just after seeing the first sequel to disney's 1991 hit. well, as much as i like the theatrical original, i wouldn't have been missing much if i never became aware of this film's existence. for little kids, i'm sure "belle's magical world" can be highly entertaining, and probably somewhat educational with its morals, but i do not recommend it for adult disney fans.