cartoon network seems to be desperate for ratings. beginning with the cancellation of samurai jack, the network seemed hellbent on removing all the shows that made it so popular, such as the powerpuff girls, dexter's lab, dragonball z, etc. when the ratings started to plummet, cn began putting up some pretty mediocre shows. though total drama island/action and chowder stand out because of their clever writing and audience-pleasing gimmicks, there are plenty of other shows that either terrible remakes (george of the jungle) or rip offs of other shows, such as the marvelous misadventures of flapjack, where the title character acts just like spongebob, and then there's johnny test, which is something of a replacement for dexter's laboratory, though it's much more of a sheer rip off than anything.<br /><br />the show's characters are clearly derived from dexter's lab, only this time the focus is on johnny, a blonde (or fiery-haired) character who torments his twin sisters, susan and mary, who just happen to look just like dexter, from the orange hair, to the glasses, the impossible technology. there is even a rival genius named bling bling boy or eugene, who appears to be sitting in for mandark. then there's dookie, johnny's best friend and talking dog, one of dexter's...i mean, susan and mary's early experiments.<br /><br />dexter's laboratory was probably one of the best cartoons on television, with its simple, but effective art style, lovable main character, and episodes that don't seem to be a long drag. johnny test is a lot different. the art style here isn't nearly as eye-pleasing. in fact, it looks absolutely awful. the characters have motivations that make them really annoying or repulsive. like how most of the series' episodes consist johnny and dookie's quest for havoc on the neighborhood girl sissy, whom johnny secretly likes, or the twins' obsession over a boy next door. seeing these two geniuses swoon at the sight of abs and the fact that johnny appears to be someone you would never want to associate with, there is no real connection between the viewer and characters.<br /><br />one thing the series heavily exploits in its name is that johnny is susan and mary's guinea pig for their experiments. these range from turning johnny fat, ugly, monstrous, and even into a woman. the twins then help johnny in whatever scheme he's planning in return for his services. whenever there's an episode involving this kind of "win/win" deal, it usually comes undone at the seems and those that doesn't come completely off the rails never ends satisfyingly.<br /><br />the writing ranges from mediocre to horrid, however. the 'fat' episode constantly repeats "it's phat with a ph. there's a difference, you know." which is a line that should never be repeated, especially when the episode seems to promote child obesity, with johnny becoming a famous star with money and videogames just by becoming fat.<br /><br />let's talk about how the show doesn't completely rip off dexter's lab. the show tosses in a lot of characters, from two men-in-black named mr. black and mr. white, a military general who seems to need all his problems solved through johnny and his sisters, and lots of super villains, though even here, the show again steals ideas for other sources, like a mr. freeze teenage clone, an evil cat with a butler who wants cats to rule over man (like the evil talking cat from powerpuff girls), a bumbling maniac mastermind, a trio of evil skater 'dudes' and even a mole man, which is probably the most clich'e villain in the media.<br /><br />to top it all off, alongside its ugly animation and unlikeable characters, the voice acting is either passable (like the voices for mr. black and mr. white) to just plain ear-splitting (johnny, dookie, and just about every villain in the show). the theme song seems to be the only catchy thing to this show, but then it was redone just a few episodes with a band that just ruined it.<br /><br />so in the end, johnny test is not a good cartoon. its horrible references and jokes about teen culture will dismantle little children's interest in the show, while its bright coloring, ripped-off characters, and dragging episodes will ruin the experience for teens. it's just another one of those crappy shows that cartoon network is over-promoting to trick people to watching it (like mtv toward rap). if you need a show that will satisfy your children for a half hour, you'd better stick to spongebob, because johnny test is more of a "test" of patience than anything else.