i don't know what it is with these brady kids. first, barry williams publicly brags about having sexy with his tv sister, maureen mccormick, then about dating his tv mom, florence hederson. then, susan (cindy) olsen does music for a bunch of porno movies. then mike (bobby) lookinland gets in trouble for drunk driving. finally, maureen (marcia) mccormick and eve (jan) plum might have had a little same-sex fling on the side. now, christopher (peter) knight is pursued by a beautiful young model in her early-20s during his stint on "the surreal life", which at first was fun to watch, and now they are married and in a very volatile and hostile relationship. the last episode, where she posed for a bunch of nude photographs with another naked girl for a scrapbook to give to christopher for his birthday, was not a good move on her part. and he dealt with it in a very mature fashion, just picking up and leaving to clear his head. i think he was always bowing to her every need and now he's finally taking a stand. and i hate to say it, but i think she abuses him, verbally. the way she was torturing him for an engagement ring and the way she reams him for every little thing. also she talks openly about having flings with other women and it is obvious she still sleeps around on him with women and men, which is not something any self-respecting human being should do when already married to someone. if this were a man talking down to his wife like that, and going out every night partying and having sex with other people, everyone would be rallying behind the wife to leave him. why should this be any different. what started out as a cute little crush on another reality show blossomed into a huge disaster. adrianne, as beautiful as she is, is like another britney spears and lindsay lohan, clearly in need of some therapy because she cries like a baby over so many silly things. i feel sorry for her, but chris needs to rid himself of her, because he is a good man who cannot afford to be humiliated like this.