could contain spoilers.....i'm surprised by the high rating of this film to be honest..really am. all i saw was a slow moving propaganda movie with nothing much to say. (note to self must check the rating for platoon on here)this movie was so black and white...americans good...anyone else either evil or useless. i take it the british troops in it were meant to be sas (one of the most elite units in the world most would agree with i'm pretty sure) they lost 3 men and the others ran away while the us troops who weren't even elite soldiers in the fighting sense held the ground and opened up a can of whoop ass on them evil sneaky iraqis. aye dead-on strings to mind. the only good thing i have to say about this movie did come in this sense when the sniper took out the sas man...muzzle flash from distance, good noise used...really well done that bit but the rest...spare me what am i 10 years of age over here??!! well i'm not and can see nonsense propaganda in a movie and boy did this movie have it.<br /><br />spoiler...oh aye and in the main crazy,wild guy can't stay at home with his wife and young child..no he has to sign up for another year to fight in a nonsense lie of a war!! why...because young men need thrills or something apparently. like say i'm surprised by the high rating of this movie really am.<br /><br />p.s. i'm not hating america i'm hating the message of this movie that seems to not even want to confront issues of an illegal war (in my eyes) which ok fair enough because clearly there are people out there who think it's a just war for whatever messed up reason (wanted to say something else her but censored) but hey that's up to them. but to churn out a movie so one-sided like it's black and white...good v evil is lazy and treating me as a child. in war there is a lot of grey and it's two (sometimes more)sides who believe in what they are fighting for. not star wars with something something dark side verses the goodies. f' sake hollywood at times you really do take people for mugs...then again 7.8....well maybe you are right to but i'll not be buying it. glad i downloaded this movie tell you all that for nothing. ;)