this "clever" film was originally a japanese film. and while i assume that original film was pretty bad, it was made a good bit worse when american-international films hacked the film to pieces and inserted american-made segments to fool the audience. now unless your audience is made of total idiots, it becomes painfully obvious that this was done--and done with little finesse or care about the final product. the bottom line is that you have a lot of clearly japanese scenes and then clearly american scenes where the film looks quite different. plus, the american scenes really are meaningless and consist of two different groups of people at meetings just talking about gamera--the evil flying turtle! and although this is a fire-breathing, flying and destructive monster, there is practically no energy because i assume the actors were just embarrassed by being in this wretched film--in particular, film veterans brian donlevy and albert dekker. they both just looked tired and ill-at-ease for being there.<br /><br />now as for the monster, it's not quite the standard godzilla-like creature. seeing a giant fanged turtle retract his head and limbs and begin spinning through the air like a missile is hilarious. on the other hand, the crappy model planes, destructible balsa buildings and power plant are, as usual, in this film and come as no surprise. plus an odd japanese monster movie clich'e is included that will frankly annoy most non-japanese audience members, and that is the "adorable and precocious little boy who loves the monster and believes in him". yeah, right. well, just like in godzilla versus the smog monster and several other films, you've got this annoying creep cheering on the monster, though unlike later incarnations of godzilla, gamera is not a good guy and it turns out in the end the kid is just an idiot! silly, exceptional poor special effects that could be done better by the average seven year-old, bad acting, meaningless american clips and occasionally horrid voice dubbing make this a wretched film. oddly, while most will surely hate this film (and that stupid kid), there is a small and very vocal minority that love these films and compare them to bergman and kurosawa. don't believe them--this is a terrible film!<br /><br />fyi--apparently due to his terrific stage presence, gamera was featured in several more films in the 60s as well as some recent incarnations. none of these change the central fact that he is a fire-breathing flying turtle or that the movies are really, really lame.