i tried. i really did. i thought that maybe, if i gave joao pedro rodrigues another chance, i could enjoy his movie. i know that after seeing o fantasma i felt ill and nearly disgusted to the core, but some of the reviews were quite good and in favor, so i was like, "what the hell. at least you didn't pay 10 dollars at the quad. give it a shot."<br /><br />sometimes it's better to go to your dentist and ask for a root canal without any previous anesthetic to alleviate the horror of so much pain. i often wonder if it wouldn't be better to go back to my childhood and demand my former bullies to really let me have it. on other occasions, i often think that the world is really flat and that if i sail away far enough, i will not only get away from it all, but fall clear over, and that some evil, lovecraftian thing will snatch me with its 9000 tentacles and squeeze the life -- and some french fries from 1995, still lingering inside my esophagus -- out of me.<br /><br />is there a reason for odete? i'd say not at all... just that maybe her creator thought that writing a story centered on her madness (one that makes alex forrest look like strawberry shortcake) look not only creepy, but flat-out sick to the bone. she first of all decides to leave her present boyfriend (in shrieking hysterics) because she wants a child and he believes they're too young. she later crashes a funeral of a gay man, and -- get this -- in order to get closer to him, she feigns being pregnant while insinuating herself into the lives of the dead man's mother and lover in the sickest of ways. oh, of course, she shrieks like a banshee and throws herself not one, but a good three times on his grave. and there's this ridiculous business that she progressively becomes "pedro" which sums up some weak-as-bad-tea explanation that love knows no gender. or something.<br /><br />i'd say she's as nuts as a can of cashews, unsalted. but then again, so's the director. and me, for taking a chance on this. at least the men look good. other than that... not much else to see here.