this incredibly overrated anime television series (26 episodes, 25 minutes each) is about a 14-year-old boy (and two of his girl classmates) who pilots a giant robot to defend japan against invading beings called angels. there is very little explanation given to the angels or why their numbers have increased in recent times, and they just seem to pop out of nowhere for no apparent reason (why not attack all at once instead of at spaced out intervals that are convenient for the humans you're attempting to destroy?). the robot fight scenes attempt to employ a variety of obstacles, but the action itself is poorly executed and boring to watch. almost every episode seems like a waste of space where nothing of interest occurs.<br /><br />some might be intrigued by fans who mention the (very few) symbolic references herein, but that's all they are - shallow one-liners to religious or philosophical concepts that are randomly tossed in with zero craftsmanship. as a whole the series is incredibly tedious due to the superficiality of the characters, who are really nothing more than self-pitying crybabies. the psychology is pathetic, with hopelessly simplistic conflicts like "i hate my father" repeated over and over and over and over again with no progression beyond their face value. it's no understatement to say that these characters plunge this series from time-wasting mediocrity to anger-inducing garbage during the final episodes with their endless, angst-ridden diatribes of excessively repetitive psychobabble (some of which is totally meaningless).<br /><br />i'm not kidding when i say that this series just got worse and worse as it progressed. every day i'd look at the dvd set sitting on my living room table and say to myself, "damn, i've gotta watch the next episode at some point. (sigh) i may as well slug through another one tonight." the real kicker was that the episodes were only 25 minutes long, yet they were somehow able to digress into a completely uninteresting borefest within the opening 10 minutes. this is coming from a guy who will happily sit through 150-minute films with glacial pacing, so my criticism of this series is most damning indeed.<br /><br />never in my entire life have i despised watching a series as much as "evangelion." i had already purchased it based off of all the fanatical comments on imdb, and i certainly wasn't going to let it collect dust after spending my hard-earned money. what followed was 10 hours of pure, unmitigated torture. my love/hate relationship with anime is turning into a hate/love relationship after this highly acclaimed disaster.<br /><br />"evangelion" represents everything anime should not be - massive quantities of dull, pretentious tripe under the guise of intelligent cinema. the universal acclaim for this piece of crap is simply unbelievable; and the ridiculous assertions by fans that this series as "one of mankind's greatest achievements" is probably the most stupifying comment i've ever heard on imdb - and i've seen some doozies.