i watched this film in youth group, where my otherwise intuitive youth leader and his wife squeed over it. then some adult couple at a church-related christmas party misled themselves into giving a copy of this movie to every single family in attendance, and now my household is stuck with the film (though it thankfully still remains in its shrinkwrap). i cried bitter tears over these sad events, and here's why: first off: this film has good intentions, especially if you're a christian like me. this movie is trying to show that you should put your faith in god and that it'll make your life better. not so bad, right? eh. it turns out a be a problem--a big one. this movie was made by a church, so of course every single issue has to be dealt with as tastefully for christians as possible. it is all black-and-white, no gray areas. god's grace and will in this movie is a predictable thing, and it comes instantly to all those who do his bidding.<br /><br />this is not the god i know. this is not the christian life i am familiar with. the god i believe in is a powerful and trustworthy god, but he is not one that grants my every wish. i follow him as best i can, though the going is often hard; yet the football team in this movie finds their humility and self-control a lot easier than anyone should ever find it. i cannot relate to cardboard cutouts who flip from bad-side to good-side in the course of a few structured movie scenes. and when i do follow his commandments as laid out in the bible, i certainly don't find myself showered in blessing as these characters do. the largest of my immediate rewards is knowing that i have done the right thing; everything else comes with long, messy, arduous work.<br /><br />but take the example this movie sets: grant taylor coaches the football team at shiloh christian school, which has had 6 losing seasons in a row. he may lose his job over it, and he and his wife are low on money as it is. they want a baby, but the doctor tells him he is sterile. oh, and his car doesn't work. and the boys on his football team are disrespectful to their parents, whiny after their million losses, and bad at kicking field goals. this is sure one rundown community here.<br /><br />but wait, grant taylor decides he's going to trust in god for everything! and he passes on his faith to his team. so far, so good. not for long. as they begin to obey, blessing literally pour in on them. suddenly the students stop disrespecting their parents; the school has a big "revival"; the team starts winning every game; they even win the grand championship against the hardest team in the league! coach taylor's job is reassured; the school gets him a shiny new truck as a present (which, by the way, is the epitome of shallow, fair-weather employers); he gets a raise; his wife (get this) even gets pregnant from his sterile sperm! and that skinny kid manages to kick his first darn field goal right when it really matters!! wowzers, woot, yay, praise the lord, etcetera, etcetera!!! ...<br /><br />yipe. just yipe. nobody in my church has ever experienced christ in a such a cut-and-dry manner. yes, there have been miracles aplenty in my family, as well as gifts and creature comforts, and i attribute them to god's grace and lovingkindness. but god isn't some faucet tap that you turn on and off by being good or bad! he is by and large a mystery; his gifts come unexpectedly, often when you think you don't need them but you really do. it's a long, hard slog to the road of fulfillment, and things never turn out the way you thought they would.<br /><br />this movie has good intentions. but because of its supreme shallowness and total escapism, it tanks tremendously to a 1/10. the bad acting and sports movie clich'es seem to be mere pimples next to the leprous falsehoods that this movie inadvertently pushes.<br /><br />to all you future churches planning to make a movie: don't be afraid to show real life, even you have to add some inconvenient truths into the mix. however much the baser populace is wowed by this cotton candy treat, nobody has learned anything substantial from it. give us the meat, the bones, the real stuff! true life applies to everyone, not just christians, and that's one aspect "facing the giants" didn't manage to grasp.