scarecrows is one of those films that, with a little more acting, a little more direction, and a lot more story logic, would have been quite compelling as a horror entry. as it stands, it is still a creepy film that has solid make-up and gore effects, and a premise that sustains the mood of terror in spite of itself. and hey, there are no teenagers getting killed one by one--just dumb adults, so that is a refreshing change of pace. and the plot line is amazingly similar to dead birds, with a precipitating robbery, an abandoned spooky house in the middle of nowhere, and demonic monsters. but just like dead birds, the adults are still witless, they run around cluelessly before getting slaughtered one by one, and they ignore the obvious danger.<br /><br />in scarecrows, though, we never really find out the supernatural why, and that sustains the atmosphere of creepiness. and like clowns, scarecrows can be very creepy; unless they look like ray bolger, of course. escaping in a hijacked plane with the pilot and his daughter, after a robbery netting millions, a para-military bunch is double-crossed by one of their own; a very nervous guy named burt. he jumps out of the plane with the big, and heavy, box that holds the money with apparently no plans as to how to move it around once he is on the ground. being the dumbest of the bunch, he is murdered first. but not before he happens upon the fowler residence, nestled snuggly amid lots of really creepy-looking scarecrows, and surrounded with a wooden fence encircled with barbed-wire and lots of warnings to stay away. and the weird weathervane on the roof, with the pitchfork and pterodactyl, should have been a warning sign, too. the inside of the house is also quite foreboding (to us in the audience, anyway).<br /><br />annoyingly, we must listen to burt's thoughts in voice-over, as he walks around and mysteriously comes across the key to the decrepit truck in the yard. the way the key pops up would be enough to have my pants--with me in them--flying out the door. perhaps it's just me, but i really enjoy watching people's lips move on screen, even when they are just thinking out loud. it helps to intensify the action, and gives the actor more to do than just look like what the voice-over is saying. burt hoists the box onto the truck and makes his getaway. sure why not? decrepit trucks always have lots of gas in them, especially with today's prices, and the battery? no problem. now, i did mention that burt was the dumbest of the bunch, and here is why (in addition to the above, of course). wearing night-vision goggles to walk through the foliage and find the house, he takes them off to drive the truck away, and instead, turns on the headlights to see where he is going. of course, the crooks still in the plane spot the headlights of his truck, and know where he is headed. brilliant. he deserves to die. definitely. i am not sure why he needed night vision goggles in the first place, as every scene is brightly lit, from the interior of the plane, to the night-time outside scenery, and the house. the cinematographer was either a. myopic, b. just out of school, or c. dealing with really cheap filmstock.<br /><br />burt meets his demise when the truck dies in the middle of nowhere. go figure. one very nice touch, and there are, i must admit, a few in the film, is the fact that when he opens the truck's lid, there is no engine. creepy, to be sure (and insert pants comment again here). the story logic fails when dead, now-stuffed-like-a-flounder-with-money-and-straw-burt returns to the house. the rest of the bunch are there, rough him up, then realize that he is indeed dead, and was gutted and stuffed like a flounder with money and straw. dead burt does manage to put up quite a fight, though, and grabs one fellow by the mouth, pushing him through a window, causing him to bite off more than he could chew in a gorylicious scene. at this point, you would think they'd would be racing out of the house and back to the plane--but noooo, they decide to stay and look for the rest of the money. in fact, the whole burt is dead episode is treated rather matter-of-factly, although one bright bulb in the bunch does argue, "burt was walking around dead, for chrissakes!"<br /><br />the stolen money suddenly appears on the grounds outside the house, and the crooks blithely go for the bait. soon, another one of them, jack, is dispatched, and again the scene is well done and horrific, involving a dull handsaw and no anethesia. now there are three scarecrows going about wreaking mayhem, and one of them needs a hand, literally.<br /><br />when one of the crooks sees the scarecrows and jack getting scarecrow-ized, he starts screaming, running away like hell, and shooting off his gun in typical para-military fashion. so much for all that training under pressure crap. he meets up with the others and stops in his tracks to explain why he is screaming, running away like hell, and shooting off his gun, even though the scarecrows appear to be chasing him. again, that script logic thing... dead and gutted, jack returns to the house, and goes after the screamer with the usual results. if you listen to jack's demonic growl, by the way, you may notice, depending on your age, that it is the same monster-growling sound heard often in the lost in space tv episodes.<br /><br />the last two survivors race away from the house and back to the plane, barely escaping. but do they? you will have to see the film to find out.