as others have mentioned, this movie is similar to the fly (both versions) and the lesser known sci-fi flick altered states. the big difference is that those two movies were well made by people who knew what they were doing and were good at it. metamorphosis did not have these advantages. metamorphosis is a potentially interesting science fantasy story that had the wrong people in charge of it and the wrong actors playing the roles.<br /><br />the story follows scientist dr. peter houseman (gene lebrock), an obsessed man working on a genetic cure to aging and death. when the university he works for threatens to cut funding, he decides to inject the anti-aging serum into himself. as a result, dr. houseman spends the rest of the movie slowly turning into a lizard. and oh yes, watching the good doctor go through the process of becoming that lizard is a great joy. it really is so bad that it's good. some of the lines are classic: "what was it?" "a nightmare...from the past!"<br /><br />many of the reviews that i've read for this point up how stupid and ridiculous the last five minutes of this movie are. i'm just going to go ahead and spoil it: the good doctor goes from being a shuffling half-man, half-lizard thing to being what appears to be a man in a rejected godzilla costume, when the police finally gun him down. in the final scene, some obnoxious kid is seen with a little pet lizard which he claims will never die, and the movie's heroine, sally donnelly (catherine baranov) evidently decides that the little lizard is the final incarnation of dr. houseman. the camera then gives us a close-up of the lizard's face; this is, i assume, the director's way of showing us that the lizard is evil. yes, it is goofy, but i fell over laughing so i can't complain.<br /><br />i watched this movie because it was a part of the chilling classics 50 movie megapack that i purchased. i'm sure many of those who are reading this did exactly the same thing, as the 50 pack is the only way to see this movie on dvd. if you have recently bought the boxed set and haven't watched this movie yet, it really is worth your time, even if i did just ruin the ending for you. it might also be possible to find this movie online for free.