if you are having a bad day,or bad week. if you are looking for a film that will make you laugh and forget about your troubles. i don't think role models is that movie for you.<br /><br />the film centers around danny(paul rudd) and wheeler(seann william scott) two juice promoters, who go to schools promoting the product, telling kids to stay off drugs, and more juice. but danny is having the worst week ever, and crashes his company car, with wheeler in the seat next to him. his soon to be ex girlfriend beth(elizabeth banks) who is a lawyer, manages to avoid getting them jail time, by doing hours of community service, volunteering at a big brother place called sturdy wings led by gayle(jane lynch). wheeler is assigned to ronnie(bobb'e j thompson) who is 10 years old, and has a foul mouth like he's chris rock. danny is assigned to augie(mclovins, christopher mintz-plasse) who likes to dress like a knight, and fight like he is in medieval times. but will this be good for danny and wheeler, or will they be better off in jail?<br /><br />okay i'm not gonna beat around the bush, this movie was very unpleasant in many ways. namely the ronnie character, hearing those bad words coming out of a kid that young, was very shocking. if he was a little bit older, it would not have mater'd as much. i mean what where his parents thinking, when they sign'd him on to this. elizabeth banks character is so unwatchable, maybe i was supposed to feel bad for her character, but i felt nothing, because she is annoyingly predictably portrayed as a female who would be played in these types of comedies. and jane lynch, who's the worst of the worst. she delivers the most overacting performance ever. playing a former drug addict, who acts like she still is on drugs. listening to her give all that annoying dialog, made me want to throw my head up against the wall. seann william scott once again playing another stifler like character, he should really try to separate himself, and this film won't do it. and the more scott tries to hard to be funny, is what keeps him from being funny.<br /><br />now paul rudd on the other hand, i'm gonna separate from the others in the film, cause he manages to deliver a solid performance, although he does not get higher laughs, but he is the most interesting character from the rest. cause rudd does not overact, and does not try so hard. the scenes with him and mintz-plasse are watchable. but the rest of the film is so stupid, it picks up at times. but it becomes so predictable and uninteresting. it is a reminder that these types of comedies try nothing new, there all the same, they take no chances. role models is an example of that.