i did not really want to watch this one. it seemed to be an old raj kanwar movie which disgusted me even before i started watching it because i don't consider him even close to being mediocre as a filmmaker. the only reason i took this one is obviously the shahrukh khan appearance in the film. i had not even known what the film was all about because i was sure it would be just an ordinary fairy tale. so i just imagined a love story between shahrukh khan and divya bharti with a substantial supporting role by rishi kapoor who i thought would be playing her father or uncle. and to my complete shock, rishi kapoor is actually the hero! he is the one who romances the young divya! i was saddened to find out that shahrukh had a small part of no substance and that too, only in the second part of this idiotic film.<br /><br />just let me repeat the question: why would a 17 year-old lovely divya have fallen for a 40-plus long haired, chubby, swollen piglet like rishi kapoor? rishi kapoor should be ashamed of taking this part; the only thing he did is ridiculing himself. he romanced a girl who could logically be younger than his own daughter and to make things worse -- acts like a teenager at his forties. on top of that, just to make himself more pathetic, he plays a pop-star...<br /><br />to make things clear, i have no problems with actors romancing ladies much younger than they themselves are. as long as they make a convincing couple, there should be no problem. in fact, leading actors have always been cast opposite young girls (amitabh bachchan-sridevi, mithun chakraborty-madhuri dixit, shahrukh khan-deepika, salman khan-sneha ullal) and made the pairing pretty well. also, i have nothing against rishi kapoor, i think he is a good actor, and his act in bobby is still well-engraved in my heart, but it's not that he looks in this film like, say, shahrukh khan, salman khan or aamir khan look today.<br /><br />that was such a disappointment. oh, and as for the reason every person actually watched this film, shahrukh khan made a good debut. he excelled in the very little his part allowed him to do. the late divya bharti made a promising debut as well. if you want to watch this film, go for the second half only. personally, i would not do even that.