"carriers" follows the exploits of two guys and two gals in a stolen mercedes with the words road warrior on the hood hightailing it down the highway for the beach with surfboards strapped to the top of their car. brian (chris pine of "star trek") is driving and his girlfriend bobby (piper perabo of "coyote ugly")has shotgun, while brian's younger brother, danny (lou taylor pucci of "fanboys") and his friend--not exactly girlfriend--kate (emily vancamp of "the ring 2") occupy the backseat. this quartet of twentysomething characters are living in a nightmare. apparently, a viral pandemic--which co-directors & co-scenarists alex pastor and david pastor tell us absolutely nothing about--has devastated america. naturally, the lack of exposition shaves off at least fifteen minutes that would have slowed down this cynical melodrama about how humans degenerate in a crisis and become their own worst enemies.<br /><br />this lethal virus gives you the shingles and then you bleed and die. most everybody runs around wearing those white masks strapped to their nose and mouth by a thin rubber band. initially, this foursome encounters a desperate father, frank (christopher meloni of "runaway bride"),and his cute little daughter jodie (kiernan shipka of "land of the lost") blocking the highway with their suv. brian swerves around frank when he tries to waylay them, but in the process, the oil pan in their mercedes ruptures and they wind up on foot. reluctantly, they hitch a ride with frank after they seal jodie up in the rear of the suv. she wears a mask over her nose and mouth and it is speckled with blood. frank has heard that doctors are curing ailing people at a hospital and they head to it. sadly, somebody has lied to frank. the hospital physician is giving the last couple of kids some kool-aid that will put them out of their misery. the cure did not improve their condition. everybody else in town is dead. kate tries without success to get a dial tone on every phone. frank realizes that there is no hope for his daughter and he lets the heroic quartet appropriate his suv and take off.<br /><br />indeed, "carriers" qualifies as a relentlessly depressing movie about the effects of a pandemic on four sympathetic people who degenerate into homicidal murderers to protect themselves. they reach a country club and frolic around on a golf course until another four show up in suits and masks with pump-action shotguns. incredibly, our protagonists manage to escape without getting shot, but brian has a scare when he almost falls into the water with a floating corpse. eventually, they discover that one of them has become infected. later, as they are about to run out of gas, brian blocks the highway like frank did at the outset. danny tries to stop a pair of older christian women driving the car. danny lies that his pregnant wife is about to give birth and he needs their help. brian throws caution to the wind and blasts away at the ladies with his automatic pistol when they refuse to help them. brian catches a slug in the leg from the passenger, but he kills her. <br /><br />no,"carriers" is not a beer & pizza movie that you can either laugh off or laugh with because the humor is virtually non-existent. by the end of this 84-minute movie, our heroes have turned into villains who only care only for themselves and their plight. chris pine makes quite an impression as fun-loving brian and his energetic performance is the only reason to hang with this hokum, while the only other well-known actress, piper perabo, is relegated to an inconsequential girlfriend role. as bobby, she makes tragic the mistake of showing compassion to a dying little girl and pays an awful price. it is a testament to pine's performance that he can change his character to the point of putting himself before others. essentially, pine has the only role that gives him the ability to pull a one-eighty from happy-go-lucky guy to heartless guy. <br /><br />the two directors are spanish brothers, and they never let the momentum flag. since there is no relief in sight, "carriers" sinks into predictability. "irr'eversible" cinematographer beno^it debie does a fantastic job with his widescreen lensing and as unsavory as this road trip becomes, debie makes it look like a dynamic film. aside from the lack of a happy ending or closure in any sense of the word, "carriers" suffers because it is so horribly cynical. the scene when the german shepherd attacks danny conjures up the most suspense, but even it could have been improved. unfortunately, the pastor brothers do not scare up either much tension or suspense. by fade-out, you really don't care what happens to anybody.