epsilon, a.k.a. alien visitor, is not what i expected. this is a no-budget australian film with no special effects other than speeded-up film and quick scene cuts. the female alien (who comes over immediately able to speak perfectly accented australian) can "blip" from place to place or time to time and alter her perception of the flow of time to match the "faster" humans.<br /><br />an elderly grandmother tells her two granddaughters about a story a wandering man told her 40 years before, when an unnamed "she" came to the planet naked and completely disoriented, unable to recognize which star in the sky she came from...she meets a man alone camping in the australian outback, apparently bewildering him. she is here by "mistake", and gets angry when she is told she is on earth. the earthlings are known as consummate despoilers of the environment and a metaphor for the most insulting thing imaginable to the rest of the universe: those who "breathe the foul air" but do nothing about it, sticking their heads under the sand like an ostrich. in another amusing metaphor, earthlings are "frogs".<br /><br />from there, it is entirely a film about dialogue, as the perplexed man tries to understand she's peculiar psychology and viewpoints, even as she calls him unintelligent and "quaint". the man begins to realize maybe it's humans who are irrational and not thinking straight. yet, while waiting to be "beamed up" back home, she sees that this human is not entirely faulty in his thinking and even falls in love with him.<br /><br />the dialogue about perspectives is in spots interesting, but it is all layered with a heavy-handed environmental message and a low-budget feel (there are only two main actors, who blip around various deserted scenes, and the evil despoiling humans on the planet are never seen at all). the environmental message offers no solutions, but paints one or two dire metaphors about what will happen to nature and man if something isn't done. the logic also doesn't hang together: the rest of the universe has "given up" on earth, yet one space woman caught on earth by mistake manages to effect some positive change by the conclusion of the movie. what would a battalion of aliens deliberately sent here manage to achieve against pollution and waste?