i am uncertain what to make of this misshapen 2007 dramedy. attempting to be a new millennium cross-hybrid between on golden pond and the prince of tides, this film ends up being an erratic mess shifting so mercurially between comedy and melodrama that the emotional pitch always seems off. the main problem seems to be the irreconcilable difference between garry marshall's sentimental direction and mark andrus' dark, rather confusing screenplay. the story focuses on the unraveling relationship between mother lilly and daughter rachel, who have driven all the way from san francisco to small-town hull, idaho where grandmother georgia lives. the idea is for lilly to leave rachel for the summer under georgia's taskmaster jurisdiction replete with her draconian rules since the young 17-year old has become an incorrigible hellion.<br /><br />the set-up is clear enough, but the characters are made to shift quickly and often inexplicably between sympathetic and shrill to fit the contrived contours of the storyline. it veers haphazardly through issues of alcoholism, child molestation and dysfunctional families until it settles into its pat resolution. the three actresses at the center redeem some of the dramatic convolutions but to varying degrees. probably due to her off-screen reputation and her scratchy smoker's voice, lindsay lohan makes rachel's promiscuity and manipulative tactics palpable, although she becomes less credible as her character reveals the psychological wounds that give a reason for her hedonistic behavior. felicity huffman is forced to play lilly on two strident notes - as a petulant, resentful daughter to a mother who never got close to her and as an angry, alcoholic mother who starts to recognize her own accountability in her daughter's state of mind. she does what she can with the role on both fronts, but her efforts never add up to a flesh-and-blood human being.<br /><br />at close to seventy, jane fonda looks great, even as weather-beaten as she is here, and has the star presence to get away with the cartoon-like dimensions of the flinty georgia. the problem i have with fonda's casting is that the legendary actress deserves far more than a series of one-liners and maternal stares. between this and 2005's execrable monster-in-law, it does make one wonder if her best work is behind her. it should come as no surprise that the actresses' male counterparts are completely overshadowed. garrett hedlund looks a little too surfer-dude as the na"ive harlan, a devout mormon whose sudden love for rachel could delay his two-year missionary stint. cary elwes plays on a familiar suspicious note as lilly's husband, an unfortunate case where predictable casting appears to telegraph the movie's ending.<br /><br />there is also the omnipresent dermot mulroney in the morose triple-play role of the wounded widower, lilly's former flame and rachel's new boss as town veterinarian dr. simon ward. laurie metcalf has a barely-there role as simon's sister paula, while marshall regular hector elizondo and songsmith paul williams show up in cameos. some of andrus' dialogue is plain awful and the wavering seriocomic tone never settles on anything that feels right. there are several small extras with the 2007 dvd, none all too exciting. marshall provides a commentary track that has plenty of his trademark laconic humor. there are several deleted scenes, including three variations on the ending, and a gag reel. a seven-minute making-of featurette is included, as well as the original theatrical trailer, a six-minute short spotlighting the three actresses and a five-minute tribute to marshall.