darkman 3: die darkman die is directed by bradford may, the same guy who made the first darkman sequel too. darkman 3 is worse than darkman 2, and is nothing special, in my opinion. larry drake is no more as a main villain, who is now played by great jeff fahey, whose character once again wants to get darkman's work and create this time some ultra strong humans in order to get the leadership of the whole city. the film is pretty much the same in plot and execution as darkman 2, but i was mostly irritated by the presence of many scenes from darkman 2. these sequels were made in short time and with little money, so these kind of decisions had to be made. couple of scenes are pretty stylish and exiting, but still this is pretty tired film and often irritatingly stupid, too. the characters scream and laugh too much and it is very annoying. there is no any philosophical depth in the film, and this is like a remake of darkman 2 which it still cannot equal. darkman 2 had many great scenes and stylish camera work, and larry drake's ability to play great villain. darkman 3 offers only some nice scenes and moments, but mostly this film is tired and full of cliches. the few positive things in this movie are flashback edits (westlake's nightmares) and couple of truly surprising plot turns and tricks. and worth mentioning is also pretty nasty death scene of the main villain which was pretty comic book like and inventive without any gore. far more interesting than the death of main villain in part two. <br /><br />darkman 3 is worst in the whole series, and we must remember that these two sequels were made directly to video and they don't come even close to raimi's original darkman with liam neeson. darkman 2 was okay actioner with plenty of great scenes and suspense, but this last (?) entry is tired and often stupid and boring piece of sequel. it has some merits as mentioned, but overall feeling is that this should not been made in the first place. may is talented director so hopefully he can get some more noteworthy projects in the future.<br /><br />3/10