let me start by saying that i totally agree with the basic thesis of the film, that there probably was no historical jesus and christianity is a sham. with that said, this movie does a pretty poor job of proving that thesis. it makes good arguments--the gap between jesus' theoretical life and the writing of the gospels, filled only by the writings of paul, who doesn't indicate a historical jesus--and then utterly fails to convincingly argue them. it makes broad statements without presenting the evidence the statements are based on, and it resolutely ignores counter-arguments presented by christian apologists. the intellectual dishonesty, emotional manipulation, and lack of serious argument are obvious, and stunning. the only christians we hear from in the film are the head of the filmmaker's old school--who comes off like a reasonable, rational person attempting to deal with a twit with a chip on his shoulder--and various christians encountered apparently at random in a parking lot. i'm sorry, but revealing that average christians don't know much about their religion isn't exactly damning evidence of christianity's fraudulence. you may as well claim that jay leno has disproved the existence of michael dukakis on his jay-walking segment. the interviews with experts can be interesting, but the film is filled with too much of, let's be honest, the filmmaker just being snarky. within the first five minutes the film has already conflated jerry falwell with charles manson and the writers of the left behind series with the branch davidians. and by the end, the film becomes so self-centered that there's no rational argument left, just an angry former christian lashing out at the people and places he blames for his messed up childhood. y'know, maybe that movie could've been interesting, but it's misplaced in a documentary about the historicity of jesus, and it's so self-congratulatory as to deflate any sympathy. this is a michael moore film without the humor or the film-making acumen combined with a richard dawkins book without the wit or the intellectual rigor. skip it.