i watched this movie last night on one of the pay-per-view channels, and while watching it i quickly wondered why i bothered. in all honesty i really did expect something more from this film. maybe something along the lines of 'conspiracy theory'. why? maybe because of the casting. i mean, nicolas cage and harvey keitel, after all. not to mention jon voight and christopher plummer. now i'm wondering, why did they bother? but instead of an absorbing action cum mystery drama i was caught up in a pastiche of breakneck silliness a l`a 'the goonies', which to my great surprise appears to have garnered some actual critical praise. perhaps it's because 'the goonies' was clearly targeted toward the pre-teen and teen audiences. whereas 'national treasure', judging from the previews, was seriously intended to appeal to an adult audience.<br /><br />suspension of disbelief is one thing. it's how one can enjoy sci-fi and horror. but i found myself actually resisting the heaping tablespoons of paranoid and conspiracy-laden tripe being shoved at the audience. oh, the screenwriter threw around all the jargon intended to evoke a sense of serious engaged wonderment. "wow! the masons. the knights templars. you know, this could really be true!" i think the writer really lost me when gates said the founding fathers hid the treasure to keep it out of the hands of the british! and just were did the knights templar come from? new jersey? oh, i forget. from france! which goes a long way to explain how it ended up in philadelphia during the revolution. it was brought there by agents of napoleon! anyway, you see what i'm getting at. the premise of the movie is interesting. and i really do think it could have succeeded as a serious mystery drama. but it just comes off as another kid flick in grown-up clothing. in the end i think it asks the audience not simply to suspend belief but to render itself willfully ignorant to an insulting degree.<br /><br />i've just finished watching several items by werner herzog and istvan szabo. it's a shock to switch from fine dining to hollywood big mac and fries.<br /><br />okay, okay. if you pant over chases, explosions, and 'gee-whiz' gimmickry you'll enjoy 'national treasure'. but it's the sort of movie, well, have you ever stood outside a cinema waiting to get in while the previous audience comes out? and all the young kids are talking excitedly among themselves and saying things like, "wow! did you see how that thing blew up? that was so cool!" 'national treasure' is that kind of movie.