first of all, the actor they have to play jesus has blue eyes... half the actors they have playing jews have blue eyes. aren't there enough brown-eyed actors out there? jesus being depicted as having blue eyes is one of my pet peeves. he was a full-blooded jew! second of all, what is it with old english-language movies that are supposed to take place in non-english-speaking countries, and everybody has english accents? (another example is david lean's "dr. zhivago".) aren't there enough either jewish actors or actors who can do a israeli accent? the movie often is not true to the scriptures, and so seems to doubt the legitimacy of jesus's claim to be the messiah. in the bible, when jesus is baptized by john, a voice comes from heaven saying "this is my beloved son, in whom i am well pleased" (matthew 3:17, mark 1:11, luke 3:22). in the movie, john the baptist says this! the screenwriter seems to be trying to portray the believers as crazy, as well. for example, in the bible, the angel gabriel tells mary she will become pregnant with the son of god (luke 1:26-38), but in the movie, we do not see or hear any angel - mary appears to be talking to a moonbeam, and when mary's mother hears her talking to someone and peeks in on her, she doesn't hear or see anyone either. also, in the movie, when jesus is speaking to the pharisees in the temple in jerusalem, he says, "you shall not see me here again, not until you learn to cry, 'blessed is he who comes in the name of the lord', for i and my father are one and the same." the correct line (matthew 23:39 and luke 13:35)is "you will not see me again until you say, 'blessed is he who comes in the name of the lord.'" period. jesus never claimed to be god. the movie cuts out a lot of important parts (the sermon on the mount is very expurgated), but then spends a lot of time on stuff that isn't even in the bible (a whole scene with mary magdalene talking with a john). it seems like the screenwriter, instead of wanting to do a movie version of the scriptures, wanted to make a movie about what he thinks might have really happened behind (and between) the scenes. the movie has one gem though - during the scene where jesus tells the parable of the prodigal son, at matthew the tax collector's house, i had tears streaming down my face. it is the best movie i've seen about jesus's ministry (but that isn't saying much, because the others are just terrible). "jesus christ superstar" is my favourite movie about jesus's last days ("the passion of the christ" is way too graphic), though i like how "jesus of nazareth", instead of just ending with jesus's death, continues on and shows his resurrection.