scary movie 3 isn't as funny as its predecessors but its still has its funny moments. it all begins when roving reporter cindy campbell sets out to find a hard news story in the middle of television sweeps. she soon uncovers an outrageous onslaught of globe-threatening developments including alien invaders, killer videotapes, freaky crop circles and much more. faced with conspiracies of massive proportions, and a crew of very strange people following her around, cindy must fight to stop evil from taking over the world yet again. the plot is a non-issue here as the first two were pretty much plot less. this time around they focus on signs, the ring, matrix reloaded and 8 mile as well as many others just not as much as the previously mentioned ones. the first one was {imo} one of the funniest films i have ever seen. the second one wasn't as good but still quite funny. the third one is mildly enjoyable but its nothing special. let's just say that i didn't mind seeing it once but i probably wouldn't want to see it again. the jokes are either hit or miss and the ones that are funny usually involve charlie sheen. the lame ones usually involve anthony anderson as he is very overrated. why he keeps getting cast is unclear because he isn't funny. anna faris gives a funny performance and she's also kind of underrated. simon rex shows some potential as he actually wasn't so bad. regina hall also returns as brenda and she gives a pretty funny performance. the rest of the cast were pretty much a bunch of cameos. jenny mccarthy and pamela anderson probably had the funniest scene out of all the cameos. their in the opening sequence spoofing the ring and that scene turns out to be on of the more enjoyable ones in the film. denise richards, queen latifah, camryn manheim and many others also have cameos. david zucker directs and while this isn't another airplane, it's also not another my boss's daughter either. its pointless to really analyze a straight comedy as the main thing that people want to know if its funny or not. like i said before if you do like it, you probably won't really like it that much. in the end, i found it a bit disappointing as the pg-13 rating kind of weaken it but it can still be enjoyed. rating 6.3/10