listening to the director's commentary confirmed what i had suspected whilst watching the film: this is a movie made by a guy who wants to play at making a movie. the plot is the kind of thing that deluded teenagers churn out when they're going through that "i could write a book/screenplay/award winning sitcom" phase. there's a germ of an interesting idea buried in there (probably because its a sequel to some-one else's movie), but it is totally buried under an underwritten, badly executed and laughably un-thought-out script.<br /><br />the lines are dire, and the performances are un-engaging, though again, i'm inclined to blame the director. he does not appear to have consulted the actors at all about what is required, rather plonked the script in their hands, pointed the camera at them and told them to get on with it. who knows, with a little coaching, these actors could have acquitted themselves better (say what you like about musicians in movies, jon bon jovi was excellent in row your boat and more than acceptable in the leading man).<br /><br />as it stands, the cast have no chemistry whatsoever. a beautiful opportunity to use the classic sex and vampirism parallel is passed up when, in order to infect bon jovi's character with vampire blood from his ailing co-hunter, he is given a transfusion. she should have bitten him. mind you, they should have looked vaguely interested in each other throughout the rest of the film too. the only real moment of sexual tension, between the two female leads, is by the directors own admittance accidental. he had originally intended to use this silent sequence as an excuse for more pointless plot exposition - so, i suppose the finished product could have conceivably been worse. but not a lot.<br /><br />frankly, as movies go, this is badly plotted, silly and forgettable. even as trashy movies go it's not sexy enough or gory enough to be entertaining. it could have been a fun and bloody little romp, but the director has left with more of a comedy, for all the wrong reasons.