i can appreciate what barney is trying to achieve, but after sitting through this last night at a college movie house, i couldn't help but think...when is this gonna end? a very long and ponderous two hours and fifteen minutes. i had only seen a part of cremaster 3 on dvd and thought i knew what to expect. that said, experimental films such as this are better digested in small increments. there are a couple of beautiful/horrible images...including the title sequence (no kidding), but if you go into this expecting any kind of plot or meaning, then you are in for a long, snooze-inducing ride. i managed to stay awake for the whole thing (if that's a compliment) but more often than not, i was waiting for some kind of meaning or narrative...big mistake. among the collection of images are a very ornate gift-wrapping ceremony, the creation of a disgusting dish of what appears to be petroleum jelly slabs formed with a cookie cutter and sprinkled with shrimp (this is served to the crew of the ship which is shown throughout the film), a large blubber cheesecake with a large tentacle turd placed in the center of it, and the mutual evisceration of bjork and director matthew barney which eventually culminates in some bizarre kind of communion, followed by their transformation into whale-like creatures. the soundtrack is at times beautiful and annoying...sometimes even maddening. at one time, there is a song being sung by bjork to go along with the ephemeral rituals being played before us, and at other times there is just a constant droning of a high-pitched instrument, which we see a mysterious woman playing at the beginning and end of the movie. if this sounds like it doesn't make sense, that is because is doesn't! if this sounds like your cup of tea, then you will absolutely love it! if this sounds like something that you probably won't like, then stay far away from it, because you will most likely walk out of the theater during the halfway mark like several people at the screening i attended. this is the very definition of an art film. you get from it what you take from it. but otherwise, there really isn't much there, other than a few oddities and constant construction and deconstruction rituals. i'm glad that there is a place for films such as this, but i can't say i would want to sit through it again. however, i can't say i wouldn't want to see one of barney cremaster films from start to finish and compare it with this. i think, perhaps now that i know what to expect i might enjoy something like this more. to give you an idea of what kind of comprehension factor this film has, i probably would've liked it better if i had gotten stoned. then again, it could've felt twice as long as it was, and then it would've really gotten ponderous. definitely not for everyone.