in the small american town of meadowvale dr. anthony blake (david gale, the imdb listing for this character is wrong it's definitely dr. blake not dr. blakely) is the director and founder of the famed 'psychological research institute' and also host's a local t.v. programme called 'independent thinkers'. he uses this t.v. show to hypnotise the viewers and make them commit acts of violence. dr. blake has the help of a large brain with an evil face that uses it's spinal cord as a tail thingy. usually the brain is just sitting in a tank, eats mice and the odd bad actor, each time it eats someone it gets much bigger. meanwhile at the local high-school gifted but troublesome teenager jim majelewski (tom bresnahan) has been caught putting sodium down the toilets. jim is sent to dr. blake at the pri for help with his attitude and behavioural problems. while there dr. blake hooks jim up to, well something i'm not actually sure what. this whatever it is, is attached to the brain. at first jim is able to resist the brain's mind control. the brain feels that jim is a threat to itself and it's plans. once out of the pri jim starts having bizarre hallucinations and crashes his car. jim makes it to his waitress girlfriend janet (cynthia preston as cyndy preston) but is handed back to dr. blake's assistant verna (george buza) soon after by officer marks (harry booker). the brain wants to kill jim because he is the only one capable of withstanding it's mind control techniques, and with 'independent thinkers' going national the brain doesn't want anything or anyone to stop it's evil plan for world domination! jim quickly realises that the brain is controlling the entire town and he alone must stop the brain, before it takes over the world!<br /><br />directed by ed hunt who calls himself edward hunt here, the brain wasn't as bad as i thought it was going to be. don't get me wrong as it certainly isn't great either. the script by barry pearson tries a stab at satire with the brain washing and mind control by t.v. storyline. it moves along at a fair pace and isn't too boring. no explanation is given for the existence of the brain at all, it's just there and that's it we have to accept it. the story is a little choppy and never fully explores one single element, there's the t.v. mind control, the brain itself, jim being hunted by the police & his misbehaviour and various other little bits and pieces here and there including a bizarre revelation regarding dr. blake that isn't explained at all. production wise this film looks cheap, and probably was cheap. the acting isn't great but i've seen worse, and what is david gale doing in this? in fact this role is similar to gale's role in re-animator (1985) even down to his character's deaths in both films. the brain itself at first sits in a tank and starts to grow whenever it eats someone and by the end it is pretty big. each stage is just made of rubber. it doesn't look particularly good and isn't scary or creepy, just cheap. there's no blood or gore in it apart from a blink and you'll miss it decapitation. the nudity is provided by dr. blake's assistant vivian (christine kossak as christine kossack) before she gets eaten. the brain had a certain entertainment value for me but i would think most people would dislike it. maybe worth a watch if you can see it on t.v. for free.