the original thunderbirds earned a place in tv history. it was, and still is, much beloved - indeed, the entire first 10 minutes of the wallace and gromit movie (the wererabbit) is a direct lift of thunderbirds, down to a direct replay of the original thunderbird 2 launching sequence (if you don't believe me, get the movie, and then get a copy of the original episode where thunderbird 2 is launched).<br /><br />this movie was a crass attempt at making a kids' movie - when the original was loved and enjoyed by kids and adults alike! in the original, the thunderbirds spent all of their time rescuing people who were often trapped when mother nature or technology went horrible wrong (yes, there was also the occasional criminal act). the thunderbirds put their own lives and resources at risk for no reward - the very essence of heroism and selflessness. there was little physical violence. the thunderbirds challenged the imagination to a degree - how many of us would dream of someday building a thunderbird 2? and don't underestimate the power of entertainment to do this - many japanese attribute their fascination with humanoid robots to the old astroboy cartoon.<br /><br />but this movie was a poor re-image of the original. this movie came across as a meld between thunderbirds and loony tunes - i mean, we have anthony edwards as brain imitating porky pig's stuttering????? much of the action consists of kung fu/power rangers type fighting. indeed, there were funny sound effects when someone got nailed on the head with a frying pan. the tech that fired our imagination was absent - instead we have these kids running around, using a plot device that was never in the original series (having the entire team take off at once, leaving the base occupied by the kids and brain). then there was a dose of "use the force luke" mysticism thrown in when tintin would levitate something or another, coupled with the the hood using aerodynamics that looked like they were lifted from "crouching tiger, hidden dragon". about the only thing missing was for the hood to go "tintin, i am your uncle" with a breath mask voice. the heart that made thunderbirds unique was gone.<br /><br />the only bright point was ron cook's portrayal of parker - he caught it perfectly. but the actress playing lady penelope came across as a child - huh???? <br /><br />and this is why we hate this movie. when someone puts out something that was popular to a fan base, and expects the fans to shell out money to watch, and then delivers something than wasn't even close to what the fans expect - well, i am sorry, that is just plain wrong! ok, so if they were making a kids' movie - fine - next time distribute it straight to video, where many of these belong. but don't package something up in a familiar wrapper and change the innards.