never before have the motives of the producers of a motion picture been more transparent. let's see: first, they get every willing televangelist to hype this film as the greatest thing since sliced white bread. next, they encourage as many fundamentalist christians as possible to purchase copies of the film so as to recoup its paltry production costs and pump up its advertising budget. and finally, when the film hits the theaters, get as many said christians as possible to see it yet again, bus them into the multiplexes if necessary, not on the merits of the film itself, but because a #1 box office opening will be seen as some sort of profound spiritual victory.<br /><br />but that, of course, won't be enough. i imagine that any film critic with the audacity to give "left behind" anything short of a glowing review will be deemed "anti-christian."<br /><br />of course, this shamelessly manipulative marketing campaign shouldn't surprise anyone. it is, after all, good old fashioned capitalism at work. what does surprise me is how many people have been suckered into the whole "left behind" mindset. as someone who tries to balance his spiritual beliefs with some sense of reason and rationality, it leaves me scratching my head. it would appear that there are many, many people who actually believe that sometime in the near future a "rapture" is going to occur, and that millions of people all over the earth are going to simultaneously vanish into thin air. what kind of reality, i wonder, are these people living in? is this "rapture" something they actually believe in, or is it something they fervently want to believe in? and when they reach the end of their lives and realize this "rapture" has not occurred, will they be disappointed and disillusioned? will there still be people 100 years from now insisting that the "rapture" is imminent?<br /><br />in a way, i almost wish that such an event would occur! what an interesting day that would be! what would be even more interesting is if the apocalypse were to occur in a more spectacular fashion, not in the anthropological sense the authors of the "left behind" series have portrayed, but as more of a stephen spielberg production, with boiling clouds, trumpets, angels descending out of the sky, moon turned to blood, the whole nine yards. imagine coming to the realization that it was all coming true, just as the evangelists had been warning for years, and that there was something more awesome than just the cold, hard, physical reality we inhabit. wouldn't that be something???<br /><br />yet in the final analysis, it's that cold, hard, physical reality that i will content myself with. my life is not so meaningless that i need the fear of a "rapture" and the "end times" to make sense of it all ... nor do i need heaven or hell to bribe or scare me into behaving decently, thank you very much.