creep is the story of kate (potente), an intensely unlikeable bourgeois bitch that finds herself somehow sleeping through the noise of the last underground train, and waking up to find herself locked in the tube station. after somehow meeting workmate and would-be rapist guy on a mystery train that runs after the lines have closed, things go awry and she finds herself pursued by what lurks beneath the city's streets. her story is linked to that of george (blackwood), an ex-con working in the sewer system; they meet in the final third of the film, brought together by their attempts to escape the monster that pursues them.<br /><br />the pair proceed through a set of increasingly unlikely locations; from the tube station, they end up in the sewage works before somehow finding themselves in some sort of abandoned underground surgery. most tube stations don't have toilets, so how one has a surgery is beyond me. naturally, the film cares to explain that the surgery doesn't have running water. yet it has electricity? just one of many inconsistencies that work against the atmosphere of everyday believability that the film tries to create.<br /><br />the monster itself is a problem. there's a complete lack of reasoning for its actions, it just kills people for no obvious reason. and then of course it keeps some alive for no real reason either, perhaps just so that they can eventually escape and give the film an extra 15 minutes or so running time. i understand that natural evil is supposed to be scary, but then the film attempts to explain itself via a photo of a doctor and his son, and a few shots of some jars containing babies, and yes, it is just as tired and pathetic as it sounds. it also fails to explain how the creature has been underground long enough to lose the ability to speak, communicating only in raptor screams, but not long enough for its pair of shorts to decay. hmm.<br /><br />this doctor business leads to scene that is the film's desperate attempt to implant itself on your memory, and while it is gory and uncomfortable to watch, it just isn't enough. the final third of the film hinges on an emotional relationship that never existed, and the characters break down and recover for little or no obvious reason. george breaks down, unable to cope with something despite stating that he wants to escape so he can see his daughter again, and kate becomes emotionally tough seconds after going to pieces over someone that ripped her off for a travelcard. yeah.<br /><br />after starting out as a "this could happen to anyone" movie, it quickly falls apart as it introduces ideas that make it more and more unrealistic. a complete lack of emotional interest in the characters and an absence of suspense make this one to avoid.