the character of tarzan has been subjected to so many clich'es, and so many bad interpretations, that those who are hoping for a different kind of version (people like me, i mean, who liked the tarzan books as a kid and have always wished for a movie version that followed the books just a little) ought to know how the recent renditions stack up. some of the imdb reviews address this point, but here's my $.02<br /><br />i am aware of only two--count 'em--cinema depictions of tarzan, namely greystoke with christopher lambert and the disney animated version, that try to depict edgar rice burrough's rather interesting character (the son of a marooned english noble couple, picked up after their death by a tribe of apes who raise him as one of themselves, and who becomes "lord of the jungle" because of his superior human intellect before making it back to england and claiming his other identity) rather than the usual hollywood jungle-man whose origin remains obscure and whose trademarks are his famous yell, his mysterious inability to speak proper english despite long exposure to people who know the language, his habit of swinging on vines, his strength, heroism, etc. about the only thing these two characters have in common are the name tarzan and the fact that they both have a wife named jane. ron ely's tv version is something of a compromise: like burroughs' character, he speaks good english and is adept and suave in both cultures in a sort of jamesbondish way, but he's no lord greystoke and there's no jane.<br /><br />well, this film is in a third category of tarzan films, and i hope it remains a category of one because it's awful. this category uses the character as a vehicle for, of all things, soft porn. jane, played by legendarily bad actress bo derek is in africa looking for her dad the absent-minded professor who is combing the jungle looking for something which is never specified. though her dad is supposed to have been missing for a long time, she finds him effortlessly. richard harris as the dad is the best thing here; he sees the film is stupid so he has fun overacting and hamming in a way that reminds me of peter o'toole's deliberately silly performance in what's new pussycat. dad explains the legend of tarzan ("some sort of ghost or spirit" he says--either a steal from, or an inartistic attempt at homage to, king kong) to his daughter, who is at this point unfamiliar with the ape-man. shortly afterward, we hear the infamous clich'e of the tarzan yell. dad dies, which oddly doesn't seem to faze his devoted daughter very much. and then.....<br /><br />then tarzan appears, but says nothing. indeed, he says nothing during the entire film. he and jane fall in love, and they romp around wearing almost nothing as she recites doggerel love-poetry off-screen. the end. that's the plot. <br /><br />well, not exactly; there's also a scene where tarzan wrestles unrealistically with a boa constrictor--a most unusual boa, since it's the only poisonous one ever seen. jane treats the bite with the aid of a chimp who helps by wringing out the garment she tears off to bind the wound with (i'm not making this up!), and this is only one of many excuses for her to take her clothes off.<br /><br />i always like to conclude a review by saying something positive, but this time it's hard. let's see... well, it's unfair to criticize this film for featuring an orangutan, even though we all know orangutans don't live in africa; after all, the classic tarzan movies all used indian elephants, did they not? also, you have to admit that bo derek is pretty in face and form. (but in that case why the hell didn't she just make a career as an art model? what does it say about a movie when it becomes plain boring to look at a pretty woman? i actually haven't decided whether it's a positive or a negative that they never showed her crotch.) but now i realize: try as i may, i can't end on a positive note. <br /><br />see this film if you're a bad film buff. i'm outa here.