bo derek might have had a career had she not let her late husband, john, take over as her director. it's a real shame, no really, with the right direction and the right part (see "10"), bo was okay. she wouldn't win any awards even at her best, but she is no worse than many an actress who has made it big in the past 15 years or so based on looks alone. but therein lay the problem, john was determined to ride the wave that bo created with her appearance in 10, that of bo being the "perfect 10," "the hottest woman in america," "the sex symbol of the 1980s." problem is, in john's hands, this wave crashed with a resounding thud in only a few year's time. maybe he knew her limitations as an actress, perhaps that is why he fashioned movies for her that concentrated on her body, not her acting skills. but it got old real quick. it didn't help matters any that the films of john and bo derek are (let's be honest) really, really bad. and bad sums up their take on edgar rice burrough's literary icon, the lord of the jungle, tarzan of the apes.<br /><br />you know what's worst? this film is boring! make me laugh, make me cry, just don't bore me. not even bo's stunning looks and figure can rouse any interest, and that is what the film is of course built around. richard harris (god bless his soul, he and bo were previously in orca btw) hams it up and makes his scenes at least a little interesting and miles o'keefe makes a physically impressive tarzan. maybe he got the last laugh, after being hit with a ton of venom from the critics over this film, miles went on to a solid career as a b movie icon, in films that were not great art, but a million times more fun than this one. but other than that, it's bo's body,and you can only see it so many times before you long for something else to go with it. tarzan the ape man has nothing else. john derek was a truly dynamic actor, he was not a director. he should have stayed with his strength. this film unfolds at a mind numbingly slow pace and nothing really happens in the action scenes. burrough's tarzan was all about excitement and wish fulfillment (who wouldn't want to be as agile, strong and good looking as lord greystoke?) and fun! you get none of that here. watch it, and you will have wasted 107 minutes of your life. on second thought, you may come away with a valuable lesson, how not to handle someone's movie career. <br /><br />bo derek is all right in my book though. she stood by john until his dying day, has a true love of animals and nature and even looks back with a giggle at her time in the spotlight. she has also proven that she is not the dumb blonde many want her to make her out to be. if she could survive tarzan and bolero, she can survive anything. so come back bo, all is forgiven.<br /><br />and as an aside, is the steve strong who plays the bad guy the same steve strong who a brief pro wrestling career?