violence whether real or not always has an impact. in this film the violence is about as crass as you could ask for. in the great ecstacy the director has successfully demonstrated what extremes of violence people are capable of. but what was the point? the violence looks like a mix of no"e's 'irreversible, and ' kubrick's 'clockwork orange'...both of which are remarkable films. don't get me wrong, i'm not opposed to screen violence at all and i've seen some nasty stuff in my film-going years, but this film as a whole is totally juvenile. the story is never developed enough to offer any reason for the extreme violence, the rizla paper thin reason we are give for robert's demise is his introduction to drugs. danny dyer plays the character who is partly responsible for robert's drug fuelled demise, however he is on screen for less than 5 minutes. lesley manville is robert's unable to cope mum, i am not sure what either of these actors is doing in a film of this low caliber. the acting is wooden, the scene in the kitchen with the tv-cook and his wife for instance is as painful to watch if not more so than the shocking finale- who wrote those dialogues?! some of the comments the boys make...'looks like she's enjoying it' are so trite as to tempt one to laugh if it were not for clay's ardent desire to bombard us with harrowing images of mutilated female genitals. why we need to be shown such detail possibly down to the director's adolescent obsession with sadistic pornographic imagery...one can only wonder at this young man's psychology.<br /><br />the 'political meaning' of the film was repeatedly brought to our attention due to the amount of scenes; in the bar, outside the tv-cook's house, war in iraq reports, was perhaps too obvious in my opinion. yes, war is violent, social determinism causes frustration, we're all prone to horrifingly violent acts whether you're in politics or on the street popping e. juxtaposing all these things as part of the same underlying issue is evading the actual issue which is the meaning of violence in man. this issue is one that we still haven't managed to grasp and certainly not in this film.<br /><br />my opinion: derivative, badly-made and pointless.