i seriously can't believe tim burton and timur bekmambetov, two people i love, signed on to produce this crap. tim burton is a brilliant director, but to be honest i've been losing interest in him for a while since his last few movies were either remakes or adaptations. he did produce the brilliant "nightmare before christmas", which is one i've watched multiple times, and directed movies like "beetlejuice" and "sleepy hollow", which are awesome films. bekmambetov directed 3 films that i love: night watch, day watch, and wanted. i've only seen those three of his, but they prove he's an awesome director.<br /><br />those two people producing one of the many reasons i was excited to see 9. so today i went to go see it at the theatre. i was so excited to finally have seen it. i had waited 7 months for the movie to come out.<br /><br />this movie is the first time i've walked out of a tim burton-related movie and said "i enjoyed almost none of that". i felt heartbroken to even have felt that way. i mean, with him and bekmambetov at the production helm you'd have expected this movie to be a good watch. right now i still can't get over how let down i was by this movie. i hadn't even heard of the original short film before seeing it but now, i can successfully say that this movie should have remained a short movie. hell, neil blomkamp made an awesome full length remake of alive in joburg entitled district 9, what was so hard to get right about 9??? i really wanted to think this movie was awesome. i really did. but no, it failed on so many levels.<br /><br />the plot was extremely confusing and disjointed. i had no idea what was going on, let alone what it was about. basically it's about a bunch of rag doll robots trying to save the earth. well, ok, that's what i got from it. but the writing here is extremely poor. the whole film jumps around like a 6 year old with a.d.d. telling a story. there's this big, giant clanky monster robot that 9 awakens, causing destruction and stuff. that's the main villain. however, what else is wrong with this movie is that everything comes out of nowhere. there were too many monster robots, most of which have no logical explanation behind them. they have 0 development whatsoever. i mean, that flying pterodactyl like monster just rips out of nowhere, we have no idea where it comes out of and acker just expects us to know what it is. what was even more retarded was that snake-like creature with the strobing eyes that hypnotize. i dare you to give that description to someone else out loud and expect them not to laugh. all of the 3 people i told about it burst out laughing. oh and it wraps victims up and sews them inside it. i'm. not. kidding.<br /><br />the twist in act iii is the most retarded aspect of the whole movie. so basically 9 goes back to the room he woke up in, finds this box with a hologram from the scientist in it for 9, and he tells him that the big scary machine robot was designed to bring robot life to earth, but then evil humans use it for war, and it was supposed to help protect the earth, but then the scientist gave his life to 9 so that it could help protect the world with it. and he only mentions giving his life to 9. but what about the other robots? who gave their lives to them???????? this is the perfect example of poor, rushed writing. there's only one of the life taking device thingy that exists so how did the other 8 get life given to them??????? the characters are not likable at all either. they risk their lives for no reason at all. the only good character is 7. 6 annoyed me with his "go back to the source!!!!!!" ramblings, 1 is an overpowering idiot, 2 we don't know anything about, 5 kept annoying me with his "are you sure..." or "can i stay here instead...?" questions. and that ending? ugh. i'm glad i'm not the only one who thinks that the ending was a huge wtf moment.<br /><br />there's nothing redeeming about this turd except for its beautiful animation. everything looks realistic and beautiful, i love the gloomy and depressing look of everything. however, beauty can't save a good movie.<br /><br />while it's true that this movie is very pretty looking, pretty is as pretty does, and 9 does squat. i'm sure burton fans will be flocking to the theatre to see this movie without a doubt, in fact with his and bekmambetov's names being thrown around the promos, people will be flocking to the theatre to see this movie. i know i may be making a big deal out of nothing, but watching this movie made me realize how much i hate movies with unlikeable characters, nonexistent plot and just pure style over content. and this movie is one of those movies.