let's be honest shall we? al gore no more truly cares about the environment than most folks care about contacting foot fungus. it's a hook! make no mistake, al gore is a politician! three years ago he was busted/ticketed in his home state doing 70 mph in a 55 mph zone driving not a hybrid, a yugo, or even a gm metro but a lincoln (go google it if you like)! or how about the fact that mr. gore & his hollywood buddies continue to use a private fuel-guzzling jets to attend the premiers of "an inconvenient truth." so much for conservation huh, al? anyway, it takes a mere minute to subjectively look at "an inconvenient truth" & discover the main fundamental flaw. while the film parades out many seemingly impressive scientists to tell the audience the effects of supposed "global warming" there is not one scientist to tell us the supposed cause of it. for example: i can take a hundred folks out to a parking lot & they can point out an automobile which is not running right. but can they tell you with any degree of certainty why? generally not! a second flaw, just how accurate were the weather instruments 100 years ago (the toilet wasn't even invented yet)? what did they have, a june bug in a match box? hell, even 50-60 years ago? therefore, how do we know with any degree of certainty that the planet is "getting warmer" when the records of yesteryear are highly questionable at best? or that man is the sole cause of it? the answer is we don't & science is never a consensus. thirty years ago, time magazine did a cover proclaiming a "new ice age". the truth is that any 6th grade science teacher well versed in earth science will tell you that volcanic erruptions, solar activity & el ninos have more to do with our eradicate changes in climate conditions than supposed "global warming." finally, what al gore fails to adequately address is; even if america decides to follow the global gospel according to al & implement everything he recommends, how are we going to get the rest of the world to follow suit when we can't even get them to agree on something so obvious as terrorism? answer: it's wishful thinking, mr. gore & you being a former vp of the usa know it! if the folks who produced "an inconvenient truth" were really honest, they would have titled their film "al gore wants attention." but what i'd really like is for someone to ask the former vp this; why were two of the planet's biggest polluters (aka china & india) exempt from abiding by the kyoto accords? anyway, i hear the producers of a.i.t are working on their next film entitled "gnomes, fairies & elves: our endangered friends."