i give this movie 3 out of 10 because i have watched zillions of movies and i can tell clearly what an intellectual movie with a mind-teasing message should look like. definitely, the broken is not one of those movies. i have to admit that the movie made me think a lot trying to understand what the whole thing was trying to lead to and despite the explanations i've read in prior comments, they seemed only an exaggeration just to have one self in the intellectual league of people. the photo on the cover clearly shows that the broken is the broken upper piece of the face which normally contains the brain. it's a clear message that once this part of the body is broken the rest will be deformed and lifeless. so, you start waiting on the movie characters to show their defected sides and this is not obvious in any of the scenes because the movie starts right away without any introduction to the characters and their lives before. though we see the father holding a rifle when his children try to surprise him as if he is aware he has enemies but still this is not a very strong clue. had the clues been planted more in the movie, one would have said about that it is a masterpiece indeed. but though the movie was so slow in pace, it was at the same time so empty with no metaphorical scenes at all. and the reuniting of the evil dad with the evil gena at the end is a strong refuting evidence of the existential messages that some people spoke about in other comments. furthermore, if gena truly lives in the apartment as her brother tells her at the end, then how come she is the evil one? i bet i can defy any theory about this movie with so many questions that can only lead to one conclusion: this movie is a pretentious one and a waste of time. obviously it shows someone trying to make out of a meaningless mystery something which is of no value at all. i am a huge fan of horror movies and specially slasher ones that some people call popcorn movies. horror movies are not supposed to convey deep messages! they're supposed to uncover the beautiful mask of life and show you the other dark side of it which is the truest, i guess. horror movies should have blood, screams, intensity, skeletons, body organs and parts. because that is the real horror and it's never away from reality. i have watched almost all horror movies and i can prove that each one of them can be as real as the sunrising. nothing is unreal as long as the mind had thought of. for instance, the horror movie "train" with all the slashing and tensity of it and its similarity almost in everything with "hostel", it speaks about a very real thing which is selling body organs illegally by abducting people in foreign places where no one would ask or search for them.<br /><br />and even if we considered the broken a movie that has an existential message, it is still very poorly presented and the least scary. i prefer the addiction message presented in requiem for a dream which went beyond drug addiction to highlight the fact that any kind of addiction whether for sex, tv, safety/being pampered, etc... can be so destructive and it scared the hell out of me. and those who always criticize horror movies for being meaningless and very commercial, are usually just bunch of people who get scared easily and simply don't like this genre but this doesn't mean that there are fans of such movies and that they have a lot to offer to the viewer from adrenaline turmoils, ecstasy, leadership lessons (believe it or not!), entertainment to most importantly the face to face interview with the essence of life, as ugly and scary as it may seems, death!