this film is pure, distilled, unadulterated boredom. i knew nothing of it before i entered the dark room, took my seat. i was seduced by the "mysterious and suspenseful" blurb on the poster i suppose. also, lena headey is nice and unconventionally sexy, and richard jenkins is always a reliable guy to have around, so the cast seemed reasonable. it may have been his name above the title that convinced me to go with this instead of whatever else was on. i should've gone to see valkyrie for the second time instead.<br /><br />the thin plot revolves around headley's gina mcvey, her boyfriend, her father, her sister and her sister's husband who for some reason are being stalked, in a very louche and unenthusiastic manner, by their evil doppelgangers who emerge from mirrors that mysteriously smash. there could be a great film behind this idea (not exactly an original idea, mind you, but still...) and in fact, if the filmmakers had shorn away all the supporting cast and simply stuck to headey's character's story, the broken could've made a reasonable 20-minute short. as it is, it is desperately unmotivated and boring, and terribly inconsistent.<br /><br />for instance, in one scene, a mirror smashes on its own in a room housing all the main characters; they look puzzled but quickly forget about it. in another scene, a mirror smashes in an empty room, and a doppelganger is visible as she "steps out" of the shards left hanging on the wall. so why did the first mirror smash if no creepy crawly was to come crawling out? just for a little thrill? there are far too many scenes of the characters in the dimly-lit london flats, peering around corners cos they thought they heard something, but seeing nothing there and moving on. we begin to wonder, why doesn't this malevolent doppelgang actually ever want to try to scare them? scare the characters and you have a chance of scaring the audience. but we, the audience, will need to start threatening each other, in the darkness of the theater, if we want to have any thrills during the broken. by the way, once we've spent time with these evil doubles, we are totally bemused as to why anyone should be expected to be frightened of them - they just stand around, blank looks on their faces, perhaps totally harmless after killing their others.<br /><br />there are some nice moods and touches throughout, and i dare say director sean ellis could fashion a genuinely stylish and suspenseful mystery movie if he was to hire an imaginative screenwriter next time.