this movie could be used in film classes in a "how not to script a b-movie" course. there are inherent constrictions in a b-movie: budgets are tight, time is precious (scarecrow was apparently shot in 8 days) and the actors are often green and inexperienced. the one aspect you have complete control over is writing the best script you can within the limitations set before you. scarecrow's script seems to have been written in a drunken haze. i could go through about fifteen examples of the nonsensical scripting of this movie, but i'll just mention one: the gravedigger. the character of the gravedigger is introduced about an hour into the movie. he seemingly has no connection to any of the other characters already in the movie. he is shown with his daughter, who also has no connection to anybody else in the movie. the gravedigger is given a couple scenes to act surly in and then is killed to pad out the body count. why give the gravedigger a daughter? why give the daughter a boyfriend? why introduce them so late in the movie? why not try to make them part of the ongoing storyline? scarecrow doesn't seem to care.<br /><br />the "story" of scarecrow goes something like this: lester is a high school kid (played by and actor who'd i'd peg to be in his early 30's) who is picked on by the other kids. he is an artist who draws birds and has a crush on a classmate named judy. his mom is a lush and the town whore. one of her reprobate boyfriends makes fun of his drawings (by calling him a "faggot" for drawing birds instead of "monsters and cowboys." if you have a high school student still drawing cowboys i'd think him to more likely be gay than a high school student who draws crows) and later, kills lester, in a cornfield, under the titular scarecrow. magically, lester's soul goes into the scarecrow. somehow, this transference changes lester's soul from that of an artist into that of a wisecracking gymnast (i know some reviews have called the scarecrow a kung-fu scarecrow. i disagree. the scarecrow practically does a whole floor routine before jumping onto the truck during the climax of the movie). the scarecrow then goes on to kill those who tormented him, those who smoke pot in the corn field, those who dig graves, boyfriends of daughters of gravediggers, pretty much anyone who showed up on the movie set.<br /><br />the bonus feature on the dvd should be mentioned. the director (a frenchman) does an impromptu version of rap music, admits he enjoys not having executives around on set so he can screw his wife while working and gives a quote to live by (and i'm paraphrasing): "life ez a bitch, but et has a great ass"<br /><br />number of beers i drank while watching this movie: 5 did it help: no number of beers needed to enjoy this movie: whatever it takes to get to blackout drunk level.