one of the five worst movies i have ever watched. and i'm not exaggerating. in fact, i recommend watching it so you can get the same feeling of incredulity as you might by watching showgirls.<br /><br />out of 400 votes, the movie gets a user rating of 5.3/10. but there is a disproportionate number of voters who gave it a 10/10, probably due to the message of the movie - nuclear weapons are the bane of mankind. chuck murdock is an all-star little league pitcher who gives up baseball because there are nuclear weapons. soon "amazing grace" smith is an all-star boston celtic who is inspired by chuck's story and gives up basketball. soon all sports leagues from the professional level to college to high school to little league dismantle in a world-wide protest. later all the children of the world go on a silence strike. this inspires the president of the united states to meet with the soviet premier, who in time agree to eliminate all nuclear weapons in time for the start of the next little league season. the movie ends with chuck about to throw out the first pitch, with the president telling his new best friend chuck not to worry about striking out every batter, as he hasn't thrown a baseball in a year.<br /><br />somewhere along the line a nefarious underworld boss kills amazing grace. when the president finds out he is told that the fbi can verify the killer but will never be able to prove it. so the president calls the underworld boss ("but it's one a.m." "i don't care, get him on the line") and tell him that he is to resign from all company boards that he sits on and sell all stocks that he has. and to not get out of line again.<br /><br />honestly, this movie was so crappy that i couldn't turn it off. it was on television from 2:30 am to 4:00 am, and i watched it all. i wasn't turned off by the anti-nuclear weapons propaganda. i was turned off by the implausible break down of all organized sports. i don't even understand why "amazing grace" smith was killed. and with all these famous athletes becoming chuck's friends, why the father was constantly upset with his son taking a principled stand. and there was the clich'e moment near the end when dad tells chuck, "i never told you this, but i'm proud of you." cue hug.