it is a real shame that nearly no one under 30 knows the "over the top" writing of michael o'donoghugh- magazine articles and snl skits that were genius for the time...and so it is a true shame that anyone who may take the opportunity to research his work will no doubt take the easy way out and watch videos- thus leading them to mr mikes mondo video. <br /><br />this movie has clever elements that never fully connect to the funny bone. the viewer experiences such things as cat diving/swimming with the man who thinks he's found feline happiness by hurling these kittens into a pool which the camera follows in slow motion and montage sequence. then we are taken to an island to where all past fads are retired (hula hops, pet rocks, rainbow dread wigs etc.) then we enter the music world (punk was a new variety of music at the time of this film) where "d" rate bar performer rootboy slim performs "boogie till you puke" in his own lazy style of dirt and eclectic sleaze. now the real beauty of all this is the back ground music. in many different styles with many different instruments the sound of telstar plays and replays- for those who don't understand telstar was the first american satellite launched into space and the theme was created to celebrate mans genius and triumph. mr mikes seems to have been meant as a signal of societal decay ridiculous wastes. now one thing the theater offered that the video release does not was a live performance of sid vicious (ex sex pistol not the wrestler) singing my way. his version is very different than sinatras as one might imagine but frankly i feel it is very much worth the listen...it's good! that is the sad part- in the vhs release paul anka refuses the rights of his song and the viewer is forced to experience 3 1/2 minutes of silence with an explanation rolling across the image of the singing dead sex pistol. <br /><br />i would give the theater release a 5 or 6 the video is closer to a 4 and now that so much is pass'e i can see where many people would give it a 3 or 2.5. if you want to see a good o'donoghugh script watch scrooged...it is a better tribute to the mans insight and talent.