well i'm probably about to be lambasted by everyone on this site, but the good earth is one of the worst structured films i've seen in a long time. we have a 2 and a half hour film that feels like its three and a half because it has two films in one. the first film tells the story of a family that has to move form their home because of drought and famine. they have to travel south to the cities to find food or work of some kind. conveniently they happen to find a bag of jewels and at the same time they find out that the drought has ended. yeah ok. with this knowledge they return home with their riches and everything is fine and wonderful again. <br /><br />well that takes about an hour and a half of film and while its incredibly lifeless at this point it does have a nice arc to it. you would think this would be a fantastic place to end the film. however, the film then continues on for a whole other hour. and in this remaining time, its takes a simple story about a family dealing with the hardships of the world and turns it into a sappy melodrama about betrayal and jealousy between lovers. oh yea and the age old, money is the root of all evil blah blah blah. just because you know your making an epic film doesn't mean that your story can go on needlessly for more than it has to. also the main idea i would gather about this film is that the earth is good to this family and holds them together. then why do we spend an hour telling a story about a rich man falling in love with another woman, and why is the final moment of the film dedicated to a wife that our main character hasn't even cared about through most of the film. <br /><br />oh wait and the film isn't the only thing thats poorly written, the main characters wife makes absolutely no sense. she complains a lot about how she was a slave and she never wants to have a slave and yadda yadda yadda. then why at the drop of a hat is she willing to sell her only daughter into slavery. even if they are starving at the time of this idea, it still doesn't make sense when 20 minutes later in the film she is complaining about not wanting a slave again. <br /><br />there are other films from the thirties that should be paid attention to. the only thing this one has going for it is the cinematography. the land is shot beautifully, oh and the sequence with the locusts is quite impressive. too bad that were in a film that had nothing to say. <br /><br />one last thing. i know that at this point in time hollywood was focused mostly on stars and they figured that a good actor can portray anything. for most of the film paul muni does portray an asian man to the best of his ability, but once it hits the half point where the film goes on for no reason he loses it and just becomes regular old italian paul, they even cut his hair so he looks like tony from scarface(also a better film than this). of all the main characters in the film i think maybe three are actually asian, the rest are just americans being silly. oh and please ms. rainer that was a really nice one note performance, not, if i could i rip the oscar out of your hands, oh i would. <br /><br />the good earth is one epic waste of time. if you want something along this vain to watch on nice evening get the grapes of wrath, a film that truly deserves all the praise it gets. mainly because it wasn't written by a monkey.