i think a round of applause is in order for whoever pieced together the trailer for rogue pictures' latest release, 'the return'. i myself, along with everyone else have been duped into believing it is in fact a horror film. on the contrary though, its actually a supernatural thriller. too bad it is not the least bit thrilling.<br /><br />'the return' stars sarah michelle gellar as joanna mills, a young woman who has had personal problems since the age of eleven. it was at that age that she began having haunting visions depicting the murder of a woman whom she has never met. while in texas on a business trip, she is led by these visions to the murdered woman's hometown, la salle. there she comes face to face with another person who has frequently appeared in her visions. a man by the name of terry stahl, who is played by peter o'brien. joanna is now on a desperate search for answers. a search that could in the end result in her very own murder.<br /><br />i really don't know where to begin here folks. which should i mention first? the atrocious acting, hideous directing, or the terribly bland story? no matter which one i choose my point behind each is the same: they simply suck. adam sussman's screenplay is downright moronic. its not interesting. its not compelling. its just plain unpleasant. i kept waiting for something to jumpstart the "film" (i've placed quotations around film because i don't believe 'the return' deserves to be called an actual film due to it's foulness.) and at least give it some slight chance of hope, but nothing ever happened. i was left out in an unbearable cold to freeze. not even stellar performances from the actors themselves could have saved this disaster. of course they probably knew this having read the script then agreeing to do the "film". i assume this is why the acting was so awful. at least that's what i'm choosing to believe. i really hope the cast doesn't pride themselves on their performances. they need immediate medical attention if they do.<br /><br />now the directing was unmistakably bad, but i can't quite crucify asif kapadia entirely. (well i could, but i won't since i'm such a nice guy.) i look at 'the return' as a test for kapadia because for all of you that don't know, this is his first full-length feature "film". he's just getting his foot in the door and still learning. next time around, well if there is a next time, hopefully he will have improved vastly. the only thing he was able to accomplish here was almost completely duplicating the visual style of marcus nispel's 2003 re-make of 'the texas chainsaw massacre'. now that's nice the "film" was given that, but unfortunately he still won't be receiving any kudos from me for that. copying someone else's work isn't something i consider to be praise worthy. (even if it is from a film i very much enjoyed.)<br /><br />i think jim sonzero's american re-make of 'pulse' will now have to fork over the title of worst film of the year to 'the return'. it beyond question is deserving of the title in almost every imaginable way. now i don't doubt this will make a small, and i mean very small, profit. no matter what though, it won't surpass or even parallel the fluke success of gellar's previous acting effort, 'the grudge'. on that note, there's one last thing i'd like to add. i can honestly say i had never been embarrassed to have been seen leaving a theater auditorium until seeing 'the return'. that is something i never wish to experience again, along with the "film" itself.