when i first saw the preview for this movie, i really couldn't wait to see it. the plot seemed good and the setting was great. i mean, a slasher movie that takes place on prom night, great idea!! and the plot: a high school teacher that becomes sexually obsessed with one of his students, goes crazy, gets arrested, and escapes three years later on prom night! prom night, a night that is supposed to be happy and memorable, turns into hell!! however, i saw it and was extremely disappointed. it was not only the worst "horror movie" i have ever seen, but it was one of the worst movie in general that i have ever seen!! first of all, it wasn't even scary. there was not one moment in that movie when i jumped out of my seat. also, the murder scenes were so cheesy and dull. all the slasher did was either stab his victims in the stomach multiple times or cut their throats. also there was absolutely no gore (its rated pg-13). the scene with the most blood was probably the one where the killer murders the black girl. he slits her throat and blood splatters on the sheets hanging around them (they don't actually show him cutting her throat).<br /><br />next, you see the killers face the first time he is introduced in the movie. he isn't mysterious, creepy, or scary. he's just this guy who kills people.<br /><br />also, everything in the movie was so clich'e. an example is when, at the end, the killer is about to kill the main character and at the last moment, the detective shoots and kills him. also, every single thing in this movie was so predictable. the victim, after seeing the guy with a knife, runs for her life, hides, thinks she gets away, and then the killer just pops out and kills her.<br /><br />finally, the sequence of the movie was extremely bad. the guy goes into the hotel, kills a few people, the bodies are discovered, someone pulls the fire alarm, and everyone evacuates. the main character forgets something in her room, has an encounter with the killer, runs and escapes. thats it! she and her boyfriend go home, the slasher kills the guards patrolling the house, finds the girl, then gets killed by the detective. the movie sequence was so stupid and clich'e.<br /><br />if your thinking of seeing this movie all because the preview looked good, trust me, don't waste your time or money. no wonder this movie was being shown in the smallest theater in the movie theater. my friend and i, along with these two girls sitting in the back, were the only ones in the theater. that should have told me something about the movie beforehand.