the little mermaid is one of my absolute favorite disney movies. i'm sorry to say, however, that disney completely messed up when they made this sequel. i'll admit it has some good points to it. the songs aren't bad, and the animation is clean and clear. there is some humor, i'm sure--i don't remember, because after watching it i immediately banned it from appearing before my eyes again. the worst point of this movie is the plot. in this movie, ariel becomes her father. she forbids her daughter to go near the sea (yes, out of fear), just as she was forbidden to go near the land. i personally think that, given her past, ariel would maintain some of her headstrong ways and not treat her daughter like she herself was treated.<br /><br />besides this fact, ursula was replaced by a non-scary, pathetic sort of sea witch (the underfed, forgotten sister) who is more comical than scary. she, too, has some little underling to do her bidding--but she's not scarier or worse than ursula. ursula spoiled us with her believability for badness. this sea witch is a joke.<br /><br />to make matters worse, flounder is a fat, deep-voiced father (no longer the cute guppy we all know and love) and eric's voice is not even done by the same actor (something that always annoys me in a remake/sequel). (his voice difference was very obvious to me, by the way!) i felt that the only reason this movie was made was so that disney could catch a few fast dollars, something i hate to think about a corporation i actually really do enjoy. i felt that this plot lacked imagination. i know that this act (child following in the footsteps of a parent) happens, but ariel was different. that was what we loved so much about her. she had a dream, she fell in love, and she made that dream come true. until she appeared in this movie, that is. then she became just like the other adults. this isn't the ariel i know. and i don't like her.<br /><br />i know of some children who have enjoyed this film, and i know some adults who didn't mind it, either. but for me, and for all of you out there who have the utmost love for ariel, please don't see this movie. the ariel we know dies within, resurrected only for a song or two and one final scene that actually isn't bad (where she accepts the water back again)--although she takes very little part in the ending, regardless.