i loved the first little mermaid. i know the songs, i love the characters and i love the story. i can't say anything like that about the little mermaid ii: return to the sea. it was terrible. let's start with the story. the plot was a reversed copy of the first movie. same situations, except in reverse! ariel wanted to live on land, her daughter melody (creative name) wants to live in the sea. ariel was tricked by ursula, melody is tricked by ursula's sister, morgana. ursula had a sister?? not sure where that came from. besides being a strange copy of the first movie, this movies plot seemed tired and was uninteresting compared to the first movie. now the characters: 1. ariel- what happened to her??!! no longer the spunky, headstrong teenager we all knew and loved from the first movie, she has now "grown up" and her personality went down the drain. her singing voice wasn't as strong either, due to either jodi benson being a lot older, or the songs being so terrible that her talent was wasted. 2. prince eric- while he didn't have a lot of personality in the first movie, like all disney princes, somehow his new voice and his very few lines made him even more robotic. to top it off, he just can't seem to defend himself, and ariel becomes the tough one of the two. 3. sebastian- say goodbye to the lovable crustacean from the first movie, because a whiny, aggravating little crab just took his place. he also had no good songs in this movie. you can almost forget the glory he earned from singing the incredible "under the sea" and "kiss the girl" from the first movie, and it is very sad. 4. flounder- they destroyed him!! he is not cute anymore, his voice is terrible, and he has kids now?? who's the mother??? 5. morgana- she appears to be ursula's sister out for revenge against her mother, who always picked ursula over her. so she plans to get king triton's trident to become the new ruler of the sea. sound familiar? anyway, she's a very clich'e villain and falls short of ursula's greatness as a villain. she epically fails at witchcraft, she's not very tough, and not threatening at all. 6.melody- ariel and eric's daughter. ironic name because she, unlike ariel, can't sing. her voice is annoying, her friends (a walrus and a penguin?? really?!) are not funny or likable, and she's exactly the same as ariel, in reverse and not as likable. skip this one. don't watch any disney sequel except for lion king 2. this movie butchered the classic that lives in all our pleasant memories. i will look back at this movie and just laugh.