reading my review of the house that screamed, many may assume that i'm some 14 year old who thinks scream is considered "classic" horror. this is not the case, as i'm 30 years old and have been watching horror films for most of my life. but admittedly, i'm a child of the 80's that grew up on slasher/zombie/ghost/cannibal, etc...types of horror films - so i do typically prefer horror films that are more graphic and faster-paced. just like someone who can appreciate different music, painting, or in this case, film - but not necessarily like them - i can appreciate why some people may enjoy this sort of film...i just don't...<br /><br />the house that screamed is an exceedingly dull and tedious film about a school for wayward girls. the heavy-handed mistress of the school rules with an iron hand (or whip in some cases...) to keep the girls in line. she has a young son who creeps around and peeps on the girls while they shower (in their nightgowns no less (?!?)...), and meanwhile, girls are disappearing from the school as they are the victim of a murderer who's lurking about the campus...<br /><br />i can see why the house that screamed is often compared to suspiria (which is a masterpiece of a film in my opinion...), in terms of the atmosphere of the school itself and the interaction between the girls and their guardians - but this film is so dull and uneventful that i could barely stay awake. i'm all for "tension" and "suspense" in horror films - but this film held neither for me. luckily, i wasn't expecting a whole lot going into this one, so i can't say i was really disappointed - the house that screamed just reinforced the fact that i personally don't typically enjoy most horror films much older than from the 70's. this isn't a hard and fast rule, but those that i have enjoyed definitely seem to be more of the exception. probably a "must-see" for horror fans who enjoy more understated and suggestive horror films - but as i don't really know too many fans of that sort of material, i can't really recommend this one...4/10