geez, another lifetime movie, but once again isn't exactly the worst movie in the world, but far from the best. i think the main problem is that it's pretty obvious who is responsible for what, and it's generally fairly predictable. worse yet, some of the flashbacks ended up being confusing, and the viewer is left wondering "okay, how much am i supposed to care?" one thing i did like is that the movie goes to show you that it's never that simple as "the good guys are good and the bad guys are bad", and sometimes it is evil vs evil rather than good vs evil. hadley didn't do what she did out of a sense of justice, she did it because she considered herself entitled to a job for being family, and to eliminate the competition. as for alicia, it simply proves that a victim isn't always a good person. some of them really do "have it coming", even if "it" was a painful, horrible death. "the burning bed" is a great example of this, but the difference is that the vile man in "the burning bed" got exactly what he deserved. but, did alicia "have it coming"? some will say that she did, but others don't agree, and the law generally doesn't either.<br /><br />as for acting, it's a mixed bag. some do a good job, like mia, but others just came across as indifferent to their roles. they were mostly wooden or simply not convincing. the music was pretty cool though and some of the scenes are nice and steamy, especially if you like girl/girl action. the movie isn't badly shot at all, but given its glaring weaknesses, the strengths are in background, unfortunately.<br /><br />i've heard rumors of a sequel, but given the years, i doubt it'll happen. but, i wouldn't be surprised if a sequel suddenly appeared. if alicia is as evil, conniving and horrible as people say, then i don't think she'll be thinking, "yay! i woke up from a coma! oh, hadley was responsible? oh! that's okay! i totally forgive her and want the charges dropped!" no way hadley would be in jail for long anyway, if she even does any time since no murder actually happened. <br /><br />anyway, worth checking out at least once!