i cannot stand this show! has there ever been even one redeeming quality, one funny punchline, or one plot line that "didn't" make the average viewer want to drown himself in a bowl of soggy cornflakes? <br /><br />the voices. oh, those horrible, wretched voices. akin to repeatedly dragging a set of fine cutlery across a dusty blackboard, each character is uniquely annoying in his or her aptitude for shrill, nasal vocals. cosmo sounds like a whining mongrel, vicky sounds like a stereotypical shrew, and timmy's dad makes every line sound like a bad impersonation of a game show host (guy smiley from "sesame street" comes to mind).<br /><br />the animation is awful; even the producers of "yu-gi-oh!" laugh at the overwhelmingly bad artwork on this show. every character has buck teeth, or a square head, or a head three sizes too big for his or her body. and what's with having the characters speak every single line wide-eyed and grinning, as though posing for a photo op with the president? then, there is the fact that every character on the show is completely moronic. not since the subtle grace of amelia bedelia, homer simpson, and buddy lembeck of "charles in charge" fame have characters been portrayed as so unrealistically dumb. usually "unrealistic" is synonymous with "unfunny", and that is most definitely the case here. there hasn't been this much slapstick based on cluelessness since "the naked gun 33 1/3"...and at least leslie nielson was good at it.<br /><br />finally, the premise of the show (and it's the same every single episode, so big time spoiler alert here): timmy wishes for something with his two "fairly oddparents", something goes wrong, there's always some contrived reason why he can't immediately reverse course and wish away the damage, and then everything turns out just fine in the end. oh, and on a side note, timmy's parents never believe him when he complains about vicky, and they continue to employ her at every opportunity. maybe it's just me, but it seems that a kids' show containing the subtle message that it pretty much does no good whatsoever to tell on an abusive babysitter probably isn't a great idea. <br /><br />if you're writing a paper and want to cite an example of just how far the quality of cartoons has fallen, "the fairly odd parents" has to be a great place to start. a prime example of television producers throwing together a worthless product aimed at kids with little or no effort simply because they know that someone somewhere will watch it.