when i first saw the trailer for prom night, i have to admit, the trailer looked good and like this would be a fun horror movie. so my friend and i saw prom night last night and i have to say i must be growing up because this was such a ridicules film, not to mention i am so sick and tired of the typical horror slasher movies with the loud noises as an excuse to scare people. there was no tension, the characters, how was i supposed to care about them? they had no development what-so-ever, the killer?! oh, my god, this was very possibly the most stupid serial killer that has ever existed, i know it's a film, but why would a man who never(or at least we know of) killed any one before, kill a girl's family and friends that he's just obsessed over? i mean, was he going to kidnap her or was he going to kill her? i have no idea, because this film made no sense and is too predictable and insulting to true fans of horror.<br /><br />donna's family was just brutally murdered by her teacher, who has become very obsessed over her, he was captured and put in jail. it's been 3 years and she's just now getting some peace in her life, she's even going to her senior prom. but the killer has escaped and still has donna on his mind, he follows her to her prom which means bad news for her friends, and the hotel maid, and the bell boy, because it is such a good idea to kill the maid and bell boy so no one become suspicious enough to check to see where these employee's are. donna is in big trouble because also this killer who is clearly human can apparently get into houses un-noticed and can kill people so silently, just, wow.<br /><br />i'm sorry, i really did want to love this movie, we haven't had a good slasher flick in a long time, but this was just a stupid movie that i was not impressed with. just the situations were unbelievable and the actors were obnoxious. i know that this was a pg-13 movie, but i just love how someone was brutally stabbed to death and they only have just a little blood on their clothes? not to mention no stab holes? i wouldn't recommend this movie for anyone unless you're a teen, this movie was made for the teenagers, not adults, and not for those who know a real horror movie, no offense to those who did enjoy this film, but i don't understand how anyone could.<br /><br />2/10