the soloist has all ingredients to impress the academy. its director, joe wright, has already authored a best picture candidate. the leading actor, robert downey jr., starred in a widely praised superhero film. finally, the movie itself is a drama. when it was mysteriously pulled from release in late 2008, filmgoers and critics were baffled. now that i've seen it, i assure you universal didn't just delay this film to promote iron man-oscar buzz. the soloist is a weak drama with no external conflict that is vastly inferior to any 2009 best picture candidates.<br /><br />downey and co-star jamie fox aren't to be blamed for this mishap. joe wright is largely at fault but even he can't save a lifetime story. many movies are too complex and alienate viewers. this one is unusually simple. it's a movie about a newspaper reporter, steve lopez (downey), who befriends a homeless musician, nathaniel ayers (jamie fox). that's it. ayers is schizophrenic and doesn't resonate with lopez's traditional approach to friendship. the two become friends. they begin this movie as acquaintances and are bffs by its end. tension consists of moments like this: will ayers let lopez take him to the homeless shelter? this material would have been better suited as a made-for-tv production rather than a feature film.<br /><br />wright includes many scenes of cheap humor to obscure the lack of content. lopez battles yard-defiling raccoons in what i consider a sub-plot. do you remember when this happened in atonement or pride and prejudice? those films were structured enough to permit an occasional joke but nothing so prolonged. ayers' back story is fleshed out when it doesn't need to be. worst of all, these scenes are not connected and appear at random intervals. it's a way of admitting that the main story carries little appeal. nathaniel was a violin prodigy with a tough upbringing (i was too). this is a fabricated attempt to create sympathy with ayers when most of us already have it. he's a homeless schizophrenic for crying out loud! the movie somewhat conveys humanity's love for music, like amadeus and beethoven lives upstairs. it isn't as effective as either of those pictures, however. the entire film is hinged on ayers' schizophrenia. it ultimately is how he interacts with everyone else. his being a musician is a nice touch but hardly worth including. the film doesn't incorporate this characteristic fully into his persona. take music out of amadeus or beethoven lives upstairs, and no film remains. the soloist is more about friendship in general than music. nathaniel could be a writer or film critic and few lines of dialog would need to be seriously altered.<br /><br />this is only joe wright's third film, and his first that isn't a romance staring keira knightley. let's hope this film isn't an indication of how limited his abilities are. there are stylistic nods to his earlier works but the soloist is much weaker than either of them. in his defense, universal should not have agreed to widely release this picture. this film seems tailored for imagine entertainment (distributors of changeling). i wouldn't be so disappointed with it if had a limited release. its poor box office performance may inhibit better dramas from being distributed nationally.