this movie starts out promisingly, with an early scene in which frank morgan advises against gary cooper's marriage to his daughter, anita louise. frank morgan, playing an unabashed gold-digger, loudly complains to cooper about his perceived penury at the hands of his family - including his daughter, anita louise. i am a fan of all 3 actors. frank morgan is (to my mind) a hollywood treasure, cooper a legend, and louise a very lovely, versatile and under-appreciated actress seldom seen in the leading role. i also have nothing against teresa wright, and while not blessed with great range, she usually delivers heart-warming performances.<br /><br />from a promising opening, the story slides downhill all the way to the end. i found nothing humorous about burning down the home of cooper's would-be in-laws. the butler in such a fastidious, non-smoking household would never just blithely walk away, allowing cooper to continue smoking, or alternatively he would certainly supply him with some means of disposing of his ill-timed cigarette. moreover, nobody with any common sense would permit himself to be left holding a lit cigarette without asking for some means of disposing of it. and finally, nobody in his right mind crushes out a cigarette in a handkerchief and sticks it in his pocket! this whole sequence just made cooper seem foolish and gauche. it is a poor contrivance - ill conceived and filmed in a way that induces ridicule not laughter. <br /><br />the forced medical examination of cooper is equally contrived. nobody lets himself undergo a complete medical examination without his being advised of its purpose or giving his consent! that cooper did so is too removed from reality to be funny - it's absurd! stealing babies from hospitals is a serious legal offense, and that, too, is nothing to laugh about. finally, the scenes of cooper's overly fastidious, neurotic attention to his baby's feeding and weight may have struck a nerve with a few people who have experienced anxiety over their own newborn babies. but to me they just seem tedious and slow. the wardrobe and prop departments went over the top in those scenes, while paradoxically, the script writer went to sleep.<br /><br />the lines are just not in the script to generate humor. they just miss on all cylinders. the laughs come not a mile-a-minute, but more like a light year-a-minute. the only time the movie has any energy or humor is when frank morgan is on camera.<br /><br />the scene that is totally wasted is when both of cooper's love interests and their respective fathers are cooped up in the same hotel room together. there is probably a rich vein of humor somewhere in that mine, but none of it was extracted.<br /><br />in the end, one of the two very likable girls is going to get hurt. predictably, it is the anita louise character, who gets jilted on her would-be-wedding night! while it is not on camera, that is her fate, and it is not particularly funny - even as a loose end. she hadn't done anything in this film to make me unsympathetic (unlike gail patrick, say, in my favorite wife). consequently, i was expecting (perhaps "hoping" is a better word in the context of the film!) for anita louise to enjoy a happy ending, too. the fact that such a nice character is essentially wiped out at the movie's end really undermines the effect of the "happy ending" for cooper and wright.<br /><br />i kept waiting for something to happen, for the witty dialog so characteristic of movies of the era... and it never delivered. a good performance by frank morgan in a slightly different role is totally wasted here.