after a lively if predictable opening bank-heist scene, 'set it off' plummets straight into the gutter and continues to sink. this is a movie that deals in nasty, threadbare stereotypes instead of characters, preposterous manipulation instead of coherent plotting, and a hideous cocktail of cloying sentimentality and gratuitous violence instead of thought, wit or feeling. in short, it's no different from 90% of hollywood product. but it's the racial angle that makes 'set it off' a particularly saddening example of contemporary film-making. posing as a celebration of 'sistahood', the film is actually a celebration of the most virulent forms of denigrating afican-american 'gangsta' stereotype. the gimmick this time is that the gangstas are wearing drag. not only does the film suggest that gangsterism is a default identity for all african americans strapped for cash or feeling a bit hassled by the man, it presents its sistas as shallow materialists who prize money and bling above all else. worse, 'set it off' exploits the theme of racial discrimination and disadvantage simply as a device to prop up its feeble plot structure. serious race-related social issues are wheeled on in contrived and opportunistic fashion in order to justify armed robbery, then they're ditched as soon as the film has to produce the inevitably conventional ending in which crime is punished, the lapd turns out to be a bunch of caring, guilt-ridden liberals (tell that to rodney king), and aspirational 'good' sista, jada pinkett smith, follows the path of upward mobility out of the 'hood and into a world of middle-class self-indulgence opened up for her by her buppie bank-manager boyfriend. 'set it off' illustrates the abysmal state of the contemporary blaxploitation film, pandering to mindless gangsta stereotypes and pretending to celebrate life in the 'hood while all the time despising it. while the likes of 'shaft' and 'superfly' in the 1970s might have peddled stereotypes and rehashed well-worn plots, they had a freshness, an energy and an innocence that struck a chord with audiences of all races and still makes them fun to watch. 'set it off' wouldn't be worth getting angry over if wasn't a symptom of the tragic decline and ghettoisation of african-american film-making since the promising breakthrough days of the early 1990s.