never even knew this movie existed until i found an old vhs copy of it, hidden deep in my dusty horror closet. the title on the box said "insect" and the illustrations on the back made clear that it is just another insignificant and poorly produced 80's horror movie. they can surely be fun, of course, as long as don't expect an intelligent scenario and as long as you're not irritated by seeing a giant amount of cheesy make-up effects. just about every important aspect that makes a horror movie worthy viewing is substandard here in "blue monkey"! the plot is ridiculous and highly unoriginal, the acting performances are painful to observe and there's a total lack of suspense. following the always-popular trend of "big-bug" movies, "blue monkey" handles about a new and unknown insect species that wipes out the doctors and patients of a remote hospital. the makers couldn't be more evasive about the actual origin of this gigantically over-sized critter! all we know is that it's not from outer space and it initially crawled out of a tropical plant. other than this, there's absolutely no explanation for where this new type of insect all of a sudden comes from! like i said, don't get your hopes up for an intelligent screenplay. the first half of the film is entertaining enough, with some nice gore and the introduction of a couple deranged characters (an 80-year-old blind and alcoholic lady!) but the second half (when the entire hospital is put to quarantine) is dreadfully boring. it is also near the end that "blue monkey" begins to exaggeratedly rip-off older (and better) films. approaching the climax, they apparently ran out of budget as well, since the lighting becomes very poor and the guy in the monster suit isn't very well camouflaged anymore. "blue monkey" is worth a peek in case you're really bored or if you really want to see every 80's horror movie ever made. fans of b-cinema may recognize john vernon ("killer klowns from outer space", "curtains") in the small and meaningless role of roger, who's in charge of the clinic.