the summer of 1979, when this flick was a staple on that new movie medium called hbo, was gas line summer & iranian hostage crisis summer. a change of mood was about to end low-budget, loner-on-a-mission car films, although "smokey & the bandit" kept need-for-speed flicks going as live-action roadrunner cartoons for a few more years. "corvette summer" is as quirky as any earlier movie like "vanishing point" or "dirty mary, crazy larry," if lighter & sexier than most. just-graduated, high-school automotive genius kenneth (hamill) hitchhikes to vegas in pursuit of the car theft ring that ripped off his shop class masterpiece, a super-custom, right-hand-drive vette. in the spiritual limbo of the i-15 desert (see "fear & loathing in las vegas") he gets into a custom van (yes, this was the tail end of the van craze, too) tricked out as a mobile bordello & driven by sassy, aspiring hooker vanessa (potts), on her way to sin city to make her, well, whatever it is ambitious hookers make. vanessa, get it? shy, innocent kenneth is in way over his head in vegas, with only his all-american resolve & his new friend to help him, although the hard-edged young call girl is predictably less world-wise than she first seems. why, in the "i am woman" age, vanessa invested her talents, money & future in the world's oldest but least dignified profession over, say, college or even hairdressing, can be explained by young men who'd like to think that all women at least consider the joys of that career path. remember the target audience, right? hamill is a good choice for the whitebread kenneth (the car doesn't even belong to him personally, but to his school), who won't be deterred from his goal by violence, money or even love--until he finds out why the car was really stolen. potts acts with style & energy but vanessa is too incredible for any but the most credulous testosterone machine to buy into. the bad guys are made surprisingly human, especially by the always-fine brion james. but there's not much action & this isn't the kind of movie that can be carried by dialog, plot twists or heavy themes. you could always reach up, turn the tv dial & plug in your "pong" console. the similar but meaner chris mitchum vehicle "stingray," which appeared at about the same time, featured lamer acting but more skin, speed & mayhem. the best features of each film might have produced a vette movie worth remembering. thus the trans am was left to rule the box-office muscle car showroom. another forgotten car movie brought back from the dead by "speed channel's" fine weekend series, lost drive-in.