54 is a film about a club with that very title in the setting of the 70s era. it features the classic good-looking bartender. the sexy females. the high powered owner. the partying. when all entwined together chaos ensues, and the bartender (played by phillipe) seems to be at the brunt of it all.<br /><br />i'm going to be as blunt and honest as possible, whilst avoiding any outright unfair or untrue comments (like, it's an 'ok' film). i really do find it a completely dire film complimented by it's dire cast. every time i sit down to watch a film casting salma hayek, i am always awaiting to see her beauty, radiantly expressed simultaneously with a great performance, but, reality invariably reminds me quite abruptly how utterly talentless she is. i mean, really, what has she ever bequeathed the masses with, other than her immense table dance in 'from dusk till dawn'...? the same goes for ryan phillippe, another poor actor who gives nothing to the screen but his good looks and insanely dull facade otherwise known as 'acting'. mike myers, isn't quite as bad as these 2, he does at least give the film something worthy. playing the seedy, extroverted co-founder of the 54 club. the type that the majority watching would hate (i.e. job well done), he puts in a somewhat convincing performance that gave me rare enjoyment from the flick. but alas, it is not enough to rescue the film from it's baseless and flat nothingness. most 'bad' bad films i find something to take from the film, but this has nothing to it, really. neve campbell isn't too bad, but she is just 'there'. the storyline is dull, it appears the writer was more bent on making a film of this style and embellishment and forgot to add anything else. any meaning. any class. anything at all. because like most ornaments, they are just hollow pointless objects, that are merely pretty to look at, much akin to the basis of this disastrous film.<br /><br />genuinely an hour and a half of time i could have spent better doing something much more exciting, like talking to 90 year old relatives on the phone about the weather.