i absolutely despise this movie. no wonder jose larraz "disowned" it at one point and refuses to discuss it. i admire larraz's work, especially his more obscure slasher/sex maniac thrillers like savage lust or scream and die. his work has a kind of inescapable artiness about it that he can't seem to switch off, owing in part to his secondary career as a painter & cartoonist. it's too bad he never made a western, his vision would have been perfect.<br /><br />black candles is easily his most notorious film and probably his best known after the masterpiece vampyres. and it's notoriety revolves around one scene where a satanic coven enacts a bizarre rite involving extracting the reproductive fluid of a goat -- symbolizing the beast -- as some kind of nauseating balm to be used in preparing the waif like sister of a murdered man for her role as the bride of satan. the scene in question is staged in a way that looks rather convincing even without the display of any plumbing apparatus the goat may have been endowed with, relying upon the histrionics of the actress recruited to play the supplicant in the ritual and lots of guttural chanting on the film's recycled musical score heard in a half-dozen films attributed to jacinto molina. the perverse nature of the scene is more implied than shown in graphic detail, heightened somewhat by the knowledge that said supplicant is actually the teen-aged daughter of the satanic priest. my but they had fun concocting this movie.<br /><br />the problem with it is that there isn't much to deconstruct or contemplate aside from the paper thin rosemary's baby derived story of a woman being weaned into her role as satan's bride by a sophisticated coven of satanists living in the hedgrowed outlands of a very sinister britain. led by eurohorror sensation helga line these satanists are comprised of doctors, lawyers, land owning magnates and other upper crust dignitaries who actually owe their professional success to their worship of the devil. all you have to do is sell your soul and the world can be yours, only watch out whom you may sell out to pay back petty personal conflict or you may end up being felched with a sword.<br /><br />the film attempts to combine this heady satanic trip with oodles or borderline graphic sex, and should correctly be regarded as a kind of apex or culmination of the sex and horror spanish thriller traditions popularized in part by mr. molina & ms. line, and which had amazingly flourished under the disapproving eye of one generalissimo franco, the dictator who controlled spain up until 1976. while he lived his decree was that spanish cinema was to be free of graphic depictions of on-screen sex. spanish directors often made two versions of their films, one with the sex concealed for their own screens and one with the fornication on display for export. as difficult as it was for the filmmakers to express themselves the result was a sort of interesting tension that usually results when artists flirt with the forbidden: spanish horror from the 1970s has a very special flavor to it that is somewhat of an acquired taste. it's not for everyone.<br /><br />but in a bizarre turn of events, without franco's influence on their culture spanish horror sort of dried up in the late 1970s, when their gothic castles and demonic orgies suddenly found themselves pass'e when compared to new sensations like jaws and the star wars phenomenon. and without franco's constraints their were suddenly a flood of overtly graphic thrillers that came tumbling out of the pipes in the very late 70s/early 80s, of which black candles is perhaps the best known due to it's emphasis on sexual deviancy with a barnyard animal. larraz' major horror films have always revolved around sexual taboos (the lesbianism of vampyres, the incest of scream and die & deviation) but here the effect of the depravity is to overshadow the rest of the production. nobody cares about anything else but the traditionally censored trip to the goat barn, and watching a cut version without the scene in the barn is almost an exercise in pointlessness. the sex isn't graphic enough to rate as porn and the chills aren't chilling enough to rate as horror.<br /><br />so, black candles is essentially a behavior study -- here is how high society british satanists might behave in their secluded mansions out in the west midlands or whatever. between sex scenes the actors/actresses sit around and have lots of discussions. the best thing the film has going for it is an undeniably oppressive atmosphere of claustrophobia, with most of it's action taking place in the tightly confined interiors of ms. line's character's mansion. nearly every avenue of fornication is hinted at so fans of soft-core sex romps with a hinting of supernatural horror will be amused, and of course the vicarious sex criminals amongst us will enjoy choking their chickens to the goat barn scene. but the ultimate conclusion of the film is silly, pretentious, intelligence insulting, and probably perfect for such an otherwise forgettable exercise in applied sleaze.<br /><br />2/10; without the goat barn this movie just isn't the same, and with the scene it's probably a bit too much for most viewers. larraz was correct to disown it.