sammy horn (michael des barres) is the head chef and owner of a famous restaurant in california. he has a lovely wife, grace horn (rosanna arquette), who is pregnant, and a beautiful son of about five years old. sammy indeed loves his family, but like dr. jeckyll and mr. hyde, he has a double life, having sex with many different women. dr. jane bordeaux (nastassja kinski) is trying to help him. ok, it is my fault: i read the summary of the other imdb user comments, i saw the imdb user rating, but i really did not believe that rosanna arquette and nastassja kinski could participate in such a bad movie. i decided to check it, and actually some comments are very complacent. the storyline, the screenplay and the dialogs are so silly and laughable that even in some x-rated movies we can find more intelligent stories. the photography is so amateurish and naive that in some parts it seems to be taken through a vhs camcorder. michael des barres does not have sense of ridiculous: being an old man, bald, would be acceptable in an advertisement of viagra or grandfather of the small boy. but as an attractive man who gets and has sex with any woman, it is scary. in wood allen's comedy, maybe he got a chance, but in a `serious' movie, it is funny. i am trying to figure out why or how rosanna arquette and nastassja kinski accepted to participate in such awful, amateurish and trash movie. do they need money? lack of chances in better movies due to their ages? are they friends of the `director' (sorry for using this word) and decided to help and promote him? i do not know whether the intention of rosanna arquette was to show her breasts full of silicone, but it is unacceptable that such a great actress accepts such a script. the same is applicable to the gorgeous nastassja kinki. she is presented fat, without make-up, without any glamour. a total lack of respect with one of the most beautiful actress in the cinema history. a fact is really intriguing me: how can a reader, without any personal interest, promote this trash, giving higher ratings or writing favorable comments about this movie? are they friends of the `director' (again, i am using this word...) or the cast? it sounds very strange to me that a normal imdb reader can like such a film. my vote is two.<br /><br />title (brazil): `viciado em sexo' (`addicted in sex')