i chuckled a few times during this movie. i laughed out loud during the notarizing of the margarine company handover (pun intended).<br /><br />there are three segments in this movie. the first one is supposed to be a spoof of "woman 'grows up' and launches career" movies. the tampax(r) box was the funniest thing in this segment. most of the cast members aren't listed here on imdb. they are the lucky ones. few other people will be able to connect this thing to the ruin of their acting careers.<br /><br />the second segment is a spoof of "sharkish woman sleeps her way to the top and seizes control of huge industry" movies. robert culp has several funny moments, all physical humor, including the aforementioned handover. after his character dies the segment sinks lower and lower as dominique corsaire rises higher and higher. by the time she becomes first lady i wanted to rip the cable out of the tv and watch "snow." i switched to pakistani music videos instead. i don't understand urdu, or whatever language the videos were in. it was still better than listening to the dialogue in this painfully dull "story."<br /><br />then came "municipalians" with the *big* stars, half of them on screen for less than a minute: elisha cook, jr., christopher lloyd, rhea perlman, henny youngman, julie kavner, richard widmark and ... *robby benson.* it's supposed to be a spoof of "young cop teams with hardened, substance abusing older cop who needs retirement *badly*" movies. the horizontal flash bar on the police car is very impressive. it was interesting seeing old rtd buses, and a shell gas station sign, and an american savings sign -- none of them are around anymore. nagurski's "never stop anywhere you might have to get out the car" made me smile momentarily. then they discuss how boring the young cop is. a lot. back and forth about how boring he is. that was as boring as this description of how boring it is. nagurski's law number four, "never go into a music store that's been cut into with an acetylene torch," made me think that the music store is a real business at the actual location the dispatcher gave. thinking about that was more interesting than the set-up for the gag which followed. young falcone (benson) gets shot. a lot. he becomes a hardened cop like nagurski. the segment keeps going. on and on. and on. it won't stop. it rolls relentlessly onward no matter how many times you wish he'd just *die* already so this thing will end. it doesn't. it goes on and on and on.... then a "buffy the vampire slayer" episode which i've seen four times already comes on. thank god! this abysmal movie ended while i went to get the mail.