those of you who, like me, were disappointed with the original 1995 horror yarn, "the fear" will find more to be disappointed with in this silly little sequel. it sort of follows a similar plot, but it is impossible to connect to the original, with the exception of the presence of morty, the mannequin monster made of wood. here is a brief overview.<br /><br />twenty years after mike hawthorne (gordon currie, in a decent performance) witnesses his father brutally murder his mother and then take his own life, mike is still suffering from the fear of that day. in hopes of ridding his fear, mike takes his girlfriend and a bunch of friends up to his grandparents' home. his plan is for everyone to dress up in costumes that represent their fears, and then present the fears to the mannequin morty. according to an indian friend, this process is supposed to magically take away one's fear. what mike doesn't know is that morty is possessed with his father's spirit, and begins killing off the friends...or is it really mike himself doing the killings? who cares?<br /><br />a have a few troubles with this film. the first lies with morty. i thought the original made morty look rather convincing. this time, it is painfully obvious morty is a man (actor jon fedele) in a fake looking suit. this can especially be seen in early scenes, where morty is still supposed to be inanimate, but if you watch closely you can see him blinking. another trouble is that most of the characters don't try hard enough. some of them do, namely betsy palmer, of friday the 13th fame, who was excellent in this film. but most of them don't make the effort or weren't given the chance. finally, there are the killings. the opening scenes involving ax murders were very convincing. actually, when i saw them i thought i was in for a good movie. when the second half of the movie arrives, and the killings really start, everything falls to pieces. deaths are either uncreative, unseen, or foreseen (glimpses of the next scene as currie has a blackout). one character dies in the end and no one, including the viewer, even notices. while more characterization was needed in the beginning half, it wasn't too bad. the second half was. i think new director chris angel got to this point and really didn't know how to shoot the violent scenes, so they turned out real sloppy and pedestrian. a silly ending doesn't help either. thus, unless you really loved the original and enjoy plucking splinters out from under your skin, you should probably skip "the fear 2: halloween night." zanatos' score: 4 out of 10.