i rented this because i'm a bit weary of '80s nbc programming and apparently i saved myself a lot of money. i have nothing against any of the actors and for their credit they do a good job but this show is flawed from the premise.<br /><br />we have a character who is unlikable. he's full of flaws, not enlightened, and a complete jerk on a good day. yet the reason why anybody should care just isn't there. while creating an american sitcom centered around a complete bullheaded jackass is revolutionary and full of potential, it just isn't met here within this show. most of the supporting characters aren't fully fleshed characters but rather sad punching bags that want empathy from the audience for being punching bags. as in any sitcom, they are the ones who are made the most normal for the audience to relate to, and in doing this they negate the lead character to such an extent that we see bittinger being himself and harming people and they just stay there because....why? there is no reason. any normal people would have simply left the abuse. keeping them there without any real reason--even the really unbelievable one given by joanna cassidy in the very special 2-part abortion episode that has major problems of its own--is where the show just falls apart. to simply believe that people put up with this guy because we are told he has a heart of gold does not mesh with the reality of the situation. if anything, this isn't even dramedy. this is a badly plotted, conceived, and executed premise that had a few moments but overall met the fate it deserved. someone had the guts to go out and make a very good idea, but the execution is so haphazard that it just looks like a weirdly scripted version of the jerry springer show where someone is abused by this tyrant that we're supposed to root for because we are told to. a show like this requires a deft touch that the actors here could have provided easily, but somehow aren't able to. and that's a fatal error that really killed the program.<br /><br />chalk it up to a show in its infancy. regardless, the show is worth a watch. but it really screwed up when trying to aim for the stars, and made the whole enterprise not what it could have been.