going down as the most expensive film in finnish history, to date, "dark floors" is a horror film with an extremely lynchian narrative that recounts an ever increasingly decrepit series of "floors" (ironically enough) in an abandoned hospital, in which our protagonists are trapped. lead by an autistic daughter and her father, himself disenchanted with the hospitals apparent lack of medical progress with his daughter, make their way into an elevator debating the issue with one of the hospitals nurses. accompanied by a security guard, a businessman and a seemingly intoxicated tramp the collective soon find the complex abandoned, but they are not alone. directed by finnish- born pete riski, more known for his television work, "dark floors" is filmed in english, using mainly english actors but has the notable inclusion of finland's arguably most famous group "lordi" (2006 eurovision song contest winners) as themselves, i.e. in their on stage monstrous costumes, as the films antagonists, yet for all this razzmatazz the production fails where it is needed most, in convincing the audience.<br /><br />any film that has their lead character use the phrase "it's too quiet" is already headed down a dubious path, and this lordi influenced horror does not break that convention. for all the good ideas that are thrown into the mix there are a handful of ripe clich'es alongside and worst of all, anything that is interestingly original isn't fleshed out enough for it to resonate. the concept of the degrading floors is initially highly ominous and does provide a sense of inevitable doom as the audience is aware those trapped in the hospital must progress ever further down in the mire. however, there isn't enough atmosphere created to scare and intimidate the audiences into the unknowing fear, the viewer is aware the journey will become ever more dangerous, as the levels degenerate from shiny white through to hellish black, but i don't think the characters are aware enough of this fact for it to be threatening. also, the entire film taking place in what is essentially its own time bubble is again a very nice touch, a concept not often used in the horror genre, but the characters don't confront the situation with enough fear and trepidation when they stumble across this fact, they continue about their business far too readily and without enough genuine concern for the idea to mean anything to the audience. these initially good ideas are just left to go to waste, as if the director and/or mr lordi (who had many of the ideas used within the film) had these thoughts, but couldn't agree or decide on how to best use them and as such lose their purpose and point. <br /><br />yet for all the frustration there are large quantities of comedy, yet not for the reasons the creators would have hoped for. too much is clich'ed, too much is recycled and too much is just simply ridiculous. while the lead is amicably acted by noah huntley, the characters are mere cardboard cut outs that have been pasted into the story from other films. we have a lead man doing everything possible to protect his daughter alongside a clunkily developed love interest. accompanying the "couple" we have the traditional token black man as a hard-nosed security guard, with the nigh on infinite clip for his sidearm, and a weasely disbelieving businessman only on the look out for himself. worst of all though, unfortunately, is the introduction of the cast of lordi as the creatures of the night that torment our wandering band of misfits, but not for them appearing as themselves. what makes a horror film scary to the viewing audience is contextualising the fear. "the shining" is scary because it's a member of your own family hounding you, in "dawn of the dead" it's our fear of each other and the primordial cannibalism and irrational thought patterns the zombies possess, in "alien" the fear is explained, the creature is rationalised and in "dark floors" there is none of that. perhaps it's unfair to compare this production to these monoliths of the genre but when you do it shows it pales significantly and that it's aggressors feel like nothing more than demented klingons where you can almost see the zip on the costumes they wear, without a build up of any atmosphere "lordi" just aren't scary.<br /><br />it's infuriating because we all cheer for the underdog and hope they do well, you want the smaller productions to say that they can create the same quality of film as "hollywood" churns out, much in the similar way that george a romero started out, but it doesn't always materialise. i enjoyed the film and didn't feel as if i had wasted the ninety minutes i had just sat through, but i felt enjoyment on a completely hollow level as if nothing that had occurred mattered or affected me subconsciously, emotionally or critically. i felt the almost lynchian narrative was a standout plus point, but it fades out into nothingness. why did it happen? what does it mean? will they go through this all again? without even the slightest insight into what will happen the film is simply puzzling for the sake of trying to be arty. was the entire sequence of events real or was it merely a dream sequence? had the autistic girl watched the eurovision song contest of 2006 and simply had a highly bizarre nightmare given the stress she was under? who knows? and unfortunately i fail to work up the energy to even care. "dark floors" is an infuriating experience that while ultimately shallow hallmarks potential and at the very least shows a plethora of creative energies from mr lordi, who perhaps should look into working solo to fully develop his ideas. it's one that fans of the group or the genre should perhaps pursue but will leave you feeling left in the lurch for not having enough light shed on the situation.