well, on it's credit side (if it can be said to have one), timothy hines did manage to capture the original setting of h.g. wells' outstanding novella. but other than that - well, to call a spade a spade - it sucks bigtime. what the master ed wood could have done with the alleged $20 million dollar budget! timothy hines really does make mr. wood, who was a flawed genius anyway, look like the best filmmaker of all time. the special effects (i guess you'd call them that) are not even up to computer game standards. the acting is, well, perhaps about dinner theater comparable, and the accents are atrocious. at the risk of sounding offensive, a lot of the acting from the principal male characters is (especially poor ogilvy), well, ahem, . . . gay! poor ogilvy minces and flounces about the bogus english countryside, waving his asbestos white handkerchief about as if it were heat resistant armor. hey, the stormtroopers in "star wars" had neat white body armor too, and it didn't work either, they still got blasted. even when ogilvy and company get fried by the martians' 'heat ray'(?), they flounce and mince in some weird kind of dance, even when they're theoretically dead and reduced to skeletons, which persist in unseemly dancing and writhing. maybe timothy hines rented the skeletons from ray harryhausen, being left over from "jason and the argonauts". or was it "josie and the pussycats"? i dunno. the soldiers, presumably because they're 'military', all seem to just rather unconvincingly explode, like the soldier on crutches and his unfortunate comrades carrying the stretcher just beyond him. wow! i loved it! but the 'soldiers' all looked like they were either fascist troops from the spanish civil war, or boer commandos (which would be more or less correct for the period. perhaps that was some bit of shrewd subtlety on the part of that wicked genius hines?). oddly enough, the character of the curate looks exactly like he's drawn in the original illustrations by warwick goble, and he also turns in the most convincing job of acting. oh, yeah. musn't forget the thunder child. in the book, the warship is described as an ironclad torpedo-ram. it was meant to ram enemy ships. yet, it's bow was crumpled after ramming the tinker-toy constructed martian war machines, with a tiny jagged hole in the forepeak, and she sank. an ironclad warship like thunderchild could've rammed the titanic and survived, but i guess the royal navy was bound by the same lowest-bidder constraints as our own military. the costumes are all wrong, especially the british army and police uniforms, cobbled together mostly from usmc alphas. and timbo, in an obvious homage to western films of yore, has obviously set his movie in wild western england, because all his riders are using western saddles. the accents being used by just about everyone appear to be a mixture of some kind of scottish regional accent used by clan macabre, and magically delicious irish accents from county malarky. on the credit side, and contrary to what one reviewer wrote, the only genuine, authentic feature of this thing is the artillery. the guns are not from the civil war, but appear to my eye and research as bona-fide british nine or 12 pounder rifled breach loaders, perfectly authentic to the period. so was the ammunition shown being used. but the artilleryman, who is a driver in the horse artillery, was not shown correctly driving his limber. you don't sit on the frigging limber box and drive a gun team, you ride the nearside wheel horses. the opening, using what i believe is authentic period film footage, is okay, and the score's not bad. however, to the best of my knowledge weybridge has never had an underground, and it certainly didn't in 1898.<br /><br />but growing up reading this novel, i am very disappointed. even more disappointed then i was at spielberg's zillion dollar, special effects laden version. maybe his version would have profited by swapping anthony piana for tom cruise, and vice versa. i have a lot more to say, but i'll let it go at this for now: i wish somebody would make a good version of "war of the worlds" that's faithful to the original. timmy's vision is fine for a high school film class, or maybe i should say pretentiously stupid for a college-level film student, and about as bad, which is about the best i can say for this thing, but that's about it. oh, yeah. just where did the budget go? and what happened to michael caine? i'd like to hear his comments! i have a sneaking suspicion that timbo "orson wood" hines' breathtaking, bound-breaking cinema masterpiece just might be the risk-taking director's ticket to cult stardom, because, i must confess a guilty pleasure at watching this movie, which i didn't pay for anyway but was thoughtfully sent to me by a friend who burned a dvd copy for me, with no malicious intent that i've been able to determine. i must add here that i thought blackmoon's dubbed and abridged version was not only a vast improvement, but an absolute, hysterically funny (in a good way) treat to watch. i find it hard to watch master timbo's version after blackmoon. keep it up, tim! make your own version of "dune", now. it just awaits the hand of a master like you! and all you headupyourass snobs who hated cloverfield? forget it. it cannot beat timbo hines artistry for sheer hilarious awfulness! hey get a life!timbo is worse than the master ed wood! i kid you not!