admittedly, i didn't have high expectations of "corky romano." but then again, who did? however, i felt it deserved the benefit of the doubt. i had no high hopes of "joe dirt" either--another recent comedy starring an snl cast member--and i ended up being pleasantly surprised. but this film is just as bad as it looks in the previews. chris kattan is actually a talented comic actor--contrary to what you might think after watching this movie--with great energy. he's been in many hilarious snl skits, and i think he's one of the most talented cast members on snl as of now. in this case, he's given a lame, pointless script and he tries to remedy each scene with his incessant mugging. throughout each scene, he attempts a lame jerry lewis act and fails miserably. jerry lewis knew how to pull off this type of physical comedy, not to mention he worked with much better writing. kattan simply looks like some ignorant fool with adhd who had one too many cafe lattes. he doesn't even wait for the punchline; he assumes we'll all laugh once he starts jumping around like an ape on crack. in one scene, he ends up in a tugging match with a dog who has a package of cocaine in his mouth. the package explodes and the cocaine splashes all over him. he comes back to the job, strung out on coke. now, how are we supposed to laugh at the fact that he's acting hyper and on-edge, when he's doing the same thing throughout the whole film? <br /><br />as for the rest of the cast members...vanessa shaw is really hot, peter berg is wasted in a thankless role and so is chris penn. peter falk is also wasted, though he has a few funny lines that i'm pretty sure he improvised. i hope falk gets a decent movie someday soon. that's too much talent too waste on a clunker like "corky romano." i didn't like falk's last movie "made" all that much either, but at least he had a decent role. <br /><br />i chuckled a few times, but i could not get a single laugh. each gag is performed with no sense of timing or delivery. and it's made worse by kattan's hammy acting. and there are certain gags that are streneously dragged out. for example, when kattan is about to fart in his two brothers' faces. he stands there for 2 or 3 minutes, trying to get out a fart and when he finally he does it's a little tiny one. it's bad enough when you have a gag that's funny and drag it out, but when you have a lame gag and you drag it out it's a hell of a lot worse. and another example of this is when he tries to translate what those two asian men are saying during a drug bust. i can go on and on about what's wrong with this so-called comedy, but i'm not gonna waste my time. like i said earlier, if you predicted bad things from the trailers--you predicted right. <br /><br />my score: 3 (out of 10)