an accurate review of nuremburg must consider the door to history inadvertently opened with the movie "valkyrie" (tom cruise). "valkyrie" (2008) at long last tells the world there was a german resistance during world war two professionally organised with bureaucrats, military generals, soldiers and civilians who tried to over throw the nazi political regime, install a new chancellor, obtain peace and close the concentration camps. however, these unknown absolute heroes received no help at all from the allies who helped the french resistance just next door. history writers have used an institutionalised agenda ever since to conceal an allied evil which cost many tens of millions of lives with everyone conditioned to believe a deception that the german people completely supported the nazis and consequently deserved the 24 hour bombing genocide and "unconditional surrender" that was imposed on the germans. <br /><br />the german enigma codes were broken by english scientists in 1943 so much of what the germans were doing was known. during 1943 the germans developed new jet fighters and jet bombers by companies including arado, heinkel and messerschmitt. however, even if the nazis were eliminated and the german resistance succeeded the allies wouldn't allow any democracy in the world to have jet fighters, jet bombers, high speed submarines, ballistic missiles and radio guided missiles without the usa having them first! this is where the institutionalised agenda is relevant. consequently, the german resistance got no help at all from the allies although they always had crucial intelligence to eliminate adolf hitler. the 20 july 1944 coup is proof there were significant efforts by the germans to obtain peace. instead, the germans got ultimatums of "unconditional surrender" and 24 hour saturation bombing in an agenda to avoid peace. the allies wanted to steal the world's greatest technology and scientists from the germans and contain complete ownership through an "unconditional surrender." it was a premeditated allied agenda to allow the war to perpetuate and keep the nazis in power to justify the 24 hour bombing but it took one year after d-day before allied armies advanced into germany to steal the world's greatest technology and scientists at the barrel of a gun. however, tens of millions of people had died since the allies abandoned the german resistance for their own greed. <br /><br />the allies imposed "unconditional surrender" on the germans as a pretext to complete ownership and control of german property and government and it was done without using the german resistance to over throw the nazis. the allies wanted to steal the world's greatest technology and scientists from the germans to achieve world technological supremacy. consequently, everything else took second place to the evil allied agenda which killed millions of german people in the 24 hour bombing; the concentration camps stayed open; the war was prolonged and led to the "cold war" with weapons based on german industrial achievements, technology, and scientists taken from the germans in world war two.<br /><br />the 1946 nuremburg war crimes trials were a public relations deception and mass murder perpetrated by the allies as retrospective justice to the nazis. it was a smoke screen to hide the evil and greedy allied agenda for world technological supremacy rather than help the german resistance overthrow the nazi political regime.<br /><br />tens of millions of people died because the allies abandoned the german resistance to an agenda but they inflicted retribution against the german chiefs of staff anyway whom paid with their lives at nuremburg war crimes or not although the allies had perpetrated genocide to achieve world technological supremacy.