before i give spike lee's mess of a film summer of sam a well-deserved thrashing, i would like to make one thing clear. i do not revile this film simply for its abundance of sleazy and unpleasant images. what makes this film so unwatchable is the fact that lee seems to believe that summer of sam should be taken seriously as a socially enlightening drama. the crime caper films of quentin tarantino, for example, are filled with violence, profanity, and other sleaze, but are nonetheless highly watchable because tarantino does not attempt to pass these films off as socially redeeming works of art. he knows that such films are for entertainment value only. on the other hand, serious dramas such as saving private ryan and schindler's list are often unpleasant to watch, but the unpleasantness serves to develop the film's plot and characters, with the end goal of getting the audience emotionally involved with the story and characters onscreen. summer of sam, unfortunately, merely wallows in its own sensationalism and sleaze, while believing that it is serving as social commentary, much like other trash epics .<br /><br />summer of sam does not serve as a serious drama because its characters are merely cardboard-cutout stereotypes. its plot purports to show the emotional impact of the hysteria over the son of sam murders on the residents of the predominately italian-american north bronx neighborhood where the murders ocurred. however, instead of of presenting the locals as a diverse mix of personalities, lee simply wheels out every negative italian stereotype imaginable. the men are ignorant, lazy, oversexed goombahs. the women are split between weak, complacent "good girls" (mira sorvino's dionna) and promiscuous "bad girls" (jennifer esposito's ruby). lee seems to vindictively wants to "payback" hollywood for their years of negative african-american stereotyping by wheeling out stereotypes of his own, and few critics seem to care. if martin scorsese, for example, presented residents of an african-american neighborhood as a bunch of amos 'n andy and aunt jemima stereotypes, critics would rightfully condemn such blatant stereotyping. more importantly, one-dimensional, stereotypical characters undermine any film that attempts to be a serious social commentary.<br /><br />without exception, the cast of summer of sam is excellent. however, the acting, for the most part, is uninspired. the cast is either just going through the motions, or they have little to work with scriptwise. additionally, there is notable miscasting. comedian john leguizamo is very talented, but his vinny character seems to be a stale, comedic impersonation of john travolta's tony manero from saturday night fever. and michael badalucco, a perennial "nice guy" actor, is badly miscast as serial killer david berkowitz, coming across as funny rather than frightening. the only performance worth paying attention to is adrien brody as the troubled, but sincere, neighborhood misfit ritchie. the brody performance and the typically stylish lee cinematography are this film's only virtues.<br /><br />*1/2 out of ****