in this 'sequel' bruce is still called billy lo (get it? bruce= billy, lo= lee. no?) but apart from that, that's all it has in common with the other movie. billy doesn't seem to be an actor anymore. he seems to be in another country. he's more like a spy. he's the only cast member to return and sadly, they kill him off to make way for a new character, his brother, bobby. sadly, when bruce dies, the movie pretty much dies with him. this was extremely poorly made. it seemed like they were writing the script as they were filming. the footage works for a while (it's not too obvious at first) but soon bruce is always shown in the dark all the time (he kicks out a light at one stage for no other apparent reason to hide the fact that it's not bruce playing the part). sadly when he dies the movie changes. i can't help but wonder if they were filming as they were writing and may well have planned to keep bruce alive, but later decided to kill him off because it would not have been plausible as bobby does not appear until billy is dead. it's hard to change the lead character halfway in the movie and bruce is a hard act to follow so it's hard to now accept bobby as the star. bruce is never seen again in this movie. i think they should have made this sequel without bruce he has a lame role in this movie. people hoping to see a new bruce lee movie will be disappointed to see that although he's given the top billing, he only has a featuring role. even the worst movies have at least one memorable bit. if there was one bit about this movie people seem to talk about, it's the scene where billy fights in a plant nursery. ironically it doesn't even use bruce lee footage. mind you, they did it more convincingly in no retreat no surrender. not one of the other actors here ever made anything else memorable. bruce's girlfriend (colleen camp) is never mentioned. my advice is to turn it off as soon as bruce is finished writing his letter to his brother. nothing else in the movie is worth watching. i found it really sad to see bruce die. i don't see how a small budgeted movie like this could get enough money to use footage from enter the dragon. this was a cheap way of trying to cash in on bruce's name. oddly this and the original are credited in bruce's filmography. thankfully so far, no one has tried anything like this again. 1981 was the year of bruce's last movie appearance. it was a sad way to end it, but thankfully this is proof that bruce's movie career should be left alone.