is it possible to give a movie no stars? i suppose not. however many stars imdb displays this just think zero and you'll get my drift. director and photographer timothy hines didn't have much of a budget compared to spielberg's herculean effort with the same material (rumored to be the most expensive movie ever made), but that need not be an insurmountable handicap. i've seen some wonderful work done on a comparative shoestring ("soldier and saints" is a recent example). with hard work, integrity and, above all, talent it is certainly possible to realize a faithful rendition of wells' novella -- and at fraction of what was spent by dreamworks on its "war of the worlds". unfortunately, hines failed in all these departments. even if he had had spielberg's budget and tom cruise signed for the lead his movie would have stunk just as badly as this barnyard animal he's foisted on us.<br /><br />primarily, hines seems unable to tell a story. thanks to digital video technology he can record images and sound, but he shows little aptitude for assembling a narrative with what he records. a guy walks down a country lane, a lot. he talks badly aped received english to some other guy. then he walks down the same lane, only shot from the back this time to show he's returning -- clever, eh? walking and talking, for nearly an hour that's all that happens. ok, i'll grant that one extended excursion from the main character's house to the impact site on horsell common to show that it's a considerable distance from one place to the other might be useful (a first-year film student could storyboard a more economical and more aesthetical establishing sequence than this, btw), but half a dozen times? back and forth, back and forth, et cetera, et cetera with some yakkity-yak in between. remarkable. the only explanation for this surfeit of redundancy other than total artistic ineptitude is a desire to pad out thirty minutes of wretchedly amateurish cg works into something that could be offered as a feature-length film. finally the martian fighting machines appear and the walking and talking becomes running and talking, or shrieking. later we get staggering and wailing for dessert.<br /><br />thankfully, much of the dialogue is lifted straight from h.g. wells' text; else we'd have no idea what is going on. but is it not the whole point of cinema to illuminate a text, to realize what words alone can't convey? if a film relies on dialogue or monologue to tell us what we see or how to feel, why bother? why not do a radio play? orson welles made himself a household name doing just that. however, hines thinks he's a filmmaker, so he's content to mouth the words and swallow the meaning.<br /><br />secondly, hines was able to buy some cg effects of a sort for his movie, but he has no idea how to use them. now i for one have no unquenchable sweet tooth for eye candy. i believe good science fiction cinema doesn't need dazzling technical effects. some really potent sci-fi's have flourished on virtually none at all. but "the war of the worlds" as film requires a certain baseline effort. wells tells a story that hinges on things can be seen and heard and even smelled. the effects don't need to be complex; they can even be crude (e.g. fighting machines on wires gliding over miniature streets as seen in the george pal/byron haskins 1953 version), but they must be handled well. unfortunately hines' effects are both crude and incompetent 