the wicker man has done the impossible! it replaced cat woman as the worst recent movie in my steel trap cinema mind. yes it's really that bad. so bad that when sitting down to write this review i thought to myself "if i had a choice to either see this movie again or to have red hot needles shoved in my eyes" i might actually go for the red hot needles.<br /><br />neil labute created a rare movie where joel schumacher could sit back and say with comfort and a guilt free mind "yeah that's some bad direction right there".<br /><br />i think the first clue for myself should have been the tag line: "some sacrifices must be made". sure it might sound sort of cheeky ominous line to intrigue you but the sacrifice will be all on the audience side of the screen. trust me on this the people responsible for this movie should be charged with a hate crime..or at least fraud for trying to pass this off as anything resembling entertainment. seriously! the movie is about an island where men are just there for breeding and i would still rather with be stuck on gilligans island with only pictures of condoleezza rice then find myself stranded there.<br /><br />the most entertaining part about this movie was the guy who ripped the loudest fart i've ever heard in a movie theater. that's not a joke nor is it fictional. i've never been to a "thriller" and heard so much laughter through out the entire film. i can't tell you with an certainty if the laughs were intentional in some effort to lighten the cinematic tension or if they just really thought this crud would actual fly. i honestly found myself routing for a power outage or a perhaps a fight to break out in the movie theater, anything to make this more interesting which is pretty sad since deez, powder and i pounded 2 beers each before the film just for a little mental anesthesia (soon to be a law before all nic cage films, write to your congressman today, don't delay). at one point i actually thought perhaps this movie is really a spoof and anna ferris is going to show up