you don't expect much from a prc picture, and with rare exceptions--mainly from edgar g. ulmer and a few by joseph h. lewis or lew landers--that's exactly what you get: not much. this "epic" about nazis in africa trying to incite an arab revolt against the british isn't much different. the script, by longtime prc hacks arthur st. claire and sherman lowe, is trite, laughable, full of unfunny "wisecracks" and plot holes the size of outer mongolia. the direction, by longtime prc no-budget specialist al herman, is semi-comatose at best. the performances, though--except for spectacularly incompetent and irritatingly hammy lead walter woolf king--aren't really half bad. veteran comedian parkyakarkus is actually the best thing about the film. he plays a guy from brooklyn masquerading as a razor-blade salesman and brightens up the screen considerably when he shows up. he's got great comic timing, charm to spare and seems to be having a heck of a good time. duncan renaldo is fairly convincing as an arab sheik--despite his spanish accent--and veteran bad guy george j. lewis as renaldo's arab rival does his usual fine job of villainy, even if he goes a bit over the top sometimes. joan woodbury is quite pretty and has a nice light touch, and she and renaldo have great chemistry together, although--like the rest of the cast--she has none at all with king. h.b. warner, whose career stretched back to the silent era, lends a shred of dignity to the low-rent proceedings, even though he blows his lines several times and, prc being prc, they weren't cut out. there's a great deal of stock footage spliced in from a big-budget silent movie with a similar arab theme--although i have no idea which one it is--and, prc being prc, no effort was made to try to make it inconspicuous: i've seldom seen stock footage that was so blatantly obvious.<br /><br />"a yank in libya" isn't very good, of course--well, ok, it stinks--but it would be worth a look just to see parkyakarkus in his prime. i had heard of him and knew that he was the father of actor/director albert brooks and super dave osborne, but had never actually seen him in anything before. it was worth watching this tenth-rate prc "extravaganza" just to see him in action. otherwise, forget it.