the 1930' were a golden age of los angeles with its film industry and great potential of various other possibilities to become rich and famous and happy. people were arriving there hoping to fulfill their dreams. expecting open arms and welcoming offers there were only a few who managed to succeed and find their way to stardom, majority then condemned to live starving, disillusioned and unwanted, searching for a bit of respect in dirty bars and nasty hotel rooms. <br /><br />young italian-american writer arturo bandini arrives to la on a similar quest - to spread his charms around to get one of those beautiful wealthy women and to write an excellent novel that would set him on a career path, having so far written a single short story published in an obscure anthology. wishing to create a romantic masterpiece he seems to be unable to produce anything without experiencing it himself though, occasionally, he sends pieces of magazine stories to a local editor that helps him survive. he is proud to present himself as an italian but deep in his heart he truly feels his italian origin as a burden. the little money and the courage to conquer the world he once had are all long gone and watching his dream turning into a hangover he holds a last single nickel to spend. <br /><br />the coffee she brought him was cold and sour and spitting a curse on her triggers a never-ending relationship of insults, unspoken excuses and a love concealed beneath. camilla being an uneducated girl trying to receive us citizenship through a marriage also carries her heavy cross of a non-perspective racial heritage. though she is much of a stronger and life experienced person her situation as a beautiful mexican woman is much harder to deal with than arturo is able to realize. <br /><br />is it obvious that arturo eventually finds his inspiration to work on the novel? is it possible that their love finally finds its place in the sun? is it likely that their romance takes an unlucky turn?<br /><br />it is very surprising to find out that the chemistry between the two main characters, performed by salma hayek and colin farrell, does not work. the relationship lacks the raw and authentic feelings. hayek though livelier a character compared to farrell's forgot to arm camilla with the passion and strength of her once brilliant character frida. also it is hard to have faith in a character which being intelligent but uneducated and illiterate uses quite difficult vocabulary and complicated sentences. a tougher character of a phil marlowe sort would definitely suit farrell better, though he looks stunning in a period costume, he seems very lost trying to find the fragile world of a twenty-year old dreamer balancing between a hidden love and desire to be true to himself. <br /><br />feeling embarrassed watching the two on the screen is not right. their relationship might have been wild but it is more likely what a thunder and a lightning are without a storm, far from real passion, feelings just described not felt inside. it is very sad that such a potential of an interesting script and good actors was wasted, turned into a grey average of soon-to-be-forgotten.