it must have been excruciating to attend the dailies as the shooting continued on this failure of a film. probably cruise, the exec. prod., saw what was happening and had towne use much, much more of the nude footage in the final cut then towne wanted to, to make up for the disaster he saw looming.(maybe cruise even thought of "titanic".)a few items: colin farrell can't act his way out of a paper bag. but he's one of the flavors-of-the-decade, a producer's darling and one is forced to avoid the embarrassment of watching him by not attending his films. he has so many moments of not believing in what he's doing and you can see it in his eyes. i think he would have been at his best as a film actor, albeit not as rich or famous as he is now, playing second banana to dynamic leads who can act. the trap of spending a lot of money for period sets, costumes, cars, et al and photographing them as if they just came from the dry cleaner or car wash/wax. no one seems to want anything to look, well, worn. or dirty. is this because the production designer was told by the line producer to make sure they didn't ruin the stuff because then the company wouldhave to pay for the ruined items?<br /><br />this was a story about the depression-thirties folks, not a disney broadway musical about that era. how about doing it in black and white or better yet, given caleb deschanel as your d.p., have him desaturate the colors during the mix to suggest some of the actual grime and poorness of the times. it should have been, after all, a bit depressing to live so desperately as these folks did, in the depression. more on farrell. did anyone for a moment believe this guy was a writer? h.l. mencken on the wall; did i see his eyes roll at one point? hayek and farrell as a sexually dynamic duo? sending a boy to do a man's work? perhaps in the book, which i haven't read, the story was about an older woman and a youth. i cannot delve too deeply into the middle to latter parts of the film because i bailed out early on. but the memory of the scenes i did see made me think that someone was doing a not-too-amusing parody of a noir movie. sort of what saturday night live has been like for the past decade: not funny. (in my mind i kept thinking of a guy noir sketch, music and all.)