ned kelly (ledger), the infamous australian outlaw and legend. sort of like robin hood, with a mix of billy the kid, australians love the legend of how he stood up against the english aristocratic oppression, and united the lower classes to change australia forever. the fact that the lower classes of the time were around 70% immigrant criminals seems to be casually skimmed around by this film. indeed, quite a few so called `facts' in this film are, on reflection, a tad dubious.<br /><br />i suppose the suspicions should have been aroused when, in the opening credits, it was claimed that this film is based upon the book, `our sunshine'. if ever a romanticized version of truth could be seen in a name for a book, there it was. this wasn't going to be a historical epic, but just an adaptation of one of many dubious legends of ned kelly, albeit a harsh and sporadically brutal version.<br /><br />unfortunately, ned kelly is nothing more than an overblown hallmark channel `real life historical drama' wannabe! the story plods along at an alarming rate (alarming because never has a film plodded so slowly!) the feeling of numbness after the two hours of pure drivel brought back memories of costner's awful wyatt earp all those years ago. simply put, nothing happens in the film, but it takes a long time getting to that nothing. this would possibly have been a tad more bearable if the performances were good (because the direction sure as heck wasn't). however, unless you are looking to play a game of spot the worst oirish accent, then you're gonna be disappointed. between that, the game of `who has the stupidest beard?', `spot the obvious backstabber!' (clue, they are all ginger for some reason), and `nature in australia.including lions', it is an experience similar to flicking through hallmark, the history channel, discovery channel, and neighbours whilst suffering a huge hangover. yup, nature pops up a lot, as to fill even more time (possibly an attempt to look arty), the film keeps showing pointless wildlife shots, and once all the native species are shown, here's a circus to allow for a camel and a lion (which is used during one fight to try to make us actually feel more sorry for the lion than the massacred people).<br /><br />this is a turgid, emotionless piece of historical fluff which should have gone straight to tv. there isn't even one good word i can say about this film. even the usually fantastic rush seems embarrassed to be here. when one of the characters comments that there is only 2 bullets left for him and his pal, i myself was wishing i had a gun to blow any memory of this film out of my head!