we should all congratulate uwe boll. he's done the unthinkable. he may be the only director to have two movies in the bottom 100 on imdb! he's like some kind of cinematic cockroach. no matter how little talent he has, and no matter how bad these movies are, he manages to keep making them. i know, he finances them all himself through some kind of bizarre german fund, but even so, his ability to keep making movies despite absolute, complete failure is one of the great mysteries of the universe.<br /><br />it wouldn't be so bad except that video game developers keep giving their best properties to this guy. i really enjoyed the alone in the dark series of games. even the latest one, the new nightmare, was good for a few hours of game play. there was a good movie to be made out of edward carnby's adventures, but this is not it. now uwe boll has gotten his hands on bloodrayne and hunter: the reckoning. what's next, silent hill? doom? i can only imagine the swath that this guy is going to cut through game-to-movie adaptations if he's not stopped. someone needs to take away his line of credit, or these video game publishers need to wise up and realize that when they make a bad movie out of a game that kills the franchise, no one is interested in that title any more.<br /><br />think about it, is house of the dead or alone in the dark a viable game title anymore? no way. a new house of the dead game comes out for x-box and nobody's gonna care. the title is dead, and all because of uwe boll. so if any of you out there work for a game publisher, or know a game publisher, or have access to a game publisher... please warn them. <br /><br />this movie itself is not even worth reviewing. i can't separate what i didn't like about this pile of dung from the rest of it. literally, everything about it sucks. the writing, the acting, the music, the cg effects, the editing. i thought that if i waited until it came out on dvd and then rented it with low expectations, i wouldn't be disappointed. boy, was i wrong. never underestimate uwe's ability to turn out a big, steaming pile of boll sh*t.