the funny sound that you may hear when you eyeball this execrable version of jules verne's classic "journey to the center of the earth" is verne spinning in his grave. the only thing about this 80 minute opus that has anything to do with "journey to the center of the earth" is the title. otherwise, everything else in this lackluster production is new and not worth watching. in fact, the director has written here at imdb.com that he directed only eight minutes of "journey to the center of the earth" and the studio tacked on part of "dollman" helmer albert pyun's sequel to his own "alien from l.a." with kathy ireland. evidently, the producers ran out of money and to satisfy overseas contractual obligations, they grafted pyun's sequel onto director rusty lemorande's movie. please, don't rent or buy this wretched piece of garbage.<br /><br />unlike director henry levin's period piece "journey to the center of the earth" (1959) with james mason and pat boone, lemorande's "journey to the center of the earth" takes place in contemporary times in hawaii. two fellows, a british nanny, and a dog are brought together for the adventure of a lifetime purely by coincidence. richard (paul carafotes of "blind date") and his comic book obsessed brother bryan (ilan mitchell-smith of "weird science") are going out to explore a cave. the heroine, crystina (nicola cowper of "underworld"), works for a domestic service called 'nannies r us.' being a nanny has been crystina's life-long dream, but she has made a less of all five of her nanny jobs. nevertheless, her sympathetic supervisor, ms. ferry (lynda marshall of "africa express"), sends her to hawaii. crystina's new client, rock star billy foul (jeremy crutchley of "doomsday") who is scheduling one last concert to revive his flagging career, has a dog named bernard. foul wants crystina to take bernard to a doggie day spa. crystina is waiting on the arrival of her taxi when a careless motel attendant accidentally puts the basket that conceals bernard in richard's jeep. you see, foul has hidden his canine in a basket because motel management strictly prohibits pets on their premises. foul has disguised the dog as a human baby. anyway, crystina catches a cab and tells the driver follow richard.<br /><br />after she catches up with them to get her dog, the cabbie cruises away and abandons her. crystina demands that richard drive her back to town, but he has other plans. unhappily, crystina joins the guys and they get lost, and then find themselves in the lost city of atlantis, a police state ruled by a dictator, at the center of the earth. the rulers of atlantis repeatedly notify their citizens that life on the surface does not exist. our heroes and heroine stumble onto atlantis quite by accident. atlantis resembles a disco and everybody looks like they are straight out of a punk rock opera. the ruler of atlantis, general rykov (janet du plessis of "operation hit squad"), is orchestrating a raid on the surface with clones of the first human, wanda saknussemm (kathy ireland of "necessary roughness"), to visit atlantis. predictably, general rykov machinations to rule atlantis and overthrow the earth fails, and our heroes and heroine save the day.<br /><br />"journey to the center of the earth" is an abomination. the movie seems to be a comedy despite its superficial satire about dictatorships. albert pyun is one of my favorite low budget action directors, but he blew it on this lightweight shambles of a science fiction saga.