well this movie actually made me feel so strongly that i signed up for an imdb account just to warn people. it is patently awful!! nothing makes sense in this movie. there is way too many subplots for a start. josh hartnett's character is an aspiring actor and yoga instructor as well as a cop who seems to be living way beyond his means and only teaches yoga to hot girls (some of whom wait naked in his jacuzzi for when he comes back from work). add to that the fact that his dad was killed by a crooked cop who just so happens to be in on the current crime being investigated by the hapless duo. harrison ford's character is trying to sell real estate on the side and is sleeping with the internal affairs investigator's ex-wife who happens to run a psychic radio show which ford's character calls from time to time. nonsense!!<br /><br />i can't remember the characters names (that's how forgettable this is) so i'll refer to them as ford and hartnett.<br /><br />then there's the dialogue which is brutal. i mean cringe-inducing stuff here. throw in every clich'e in the book (having a heart-to-heart in a dark bar during the day over a drink where the bartender knows his name; the duo being investigated by internal affairs (why??); hartnett confronting his dad's killer) and you've got one hell of a mess.<br /><br />as i mentioned the plot is preposterous and continuity is non-existent: 1) when ford's car is being repossessed, how the hell did the repo guys know where it would be parked? were they following him?? 2) when hartnett goes to the morgue and it just so happens that the only clue from the crime scene (an earring) is replicated on of the charred bodies there (that was lucky!) 3) when the two are arrested and taken in for questioning - ford keeps answering his phone and hartnett "centers himself" with a yoga pose on the table. instead of taking the phone from ford the ia guy waits for it to ring each time and then tries to grab it off the table before ford does. meanwhile the female ia officer in with hartnett is rubbing herself all over him. then, inexplicably, the two are released without answering any questions. 4) during the car chase hartnett's car is crashing and smashing its way around hollywood but then suddenly the car is perfect again. not a scratch! 5) when ford chases the bad guy into the building and he gets in the elevator how the hell does he know which floor the bad guy got off at?? 6) when the two are chasing the bad guy around in hartnett's car, ford is trying to close a real estate deal. come on! 7) the bad guy is the most unconvincing record exec ever. his motivation for killing an aspiring group of rappers on his label? they might leave his label and it's a warning to keep his other groups loyal. but hang on, how is he ever going to sign anyone new with that business plan?? 8) why is the ia guy who is investigating ford arrested in the end? there is no explication!! 9) and hartnett gets to use his "acting" to capture the bad guy in the end.<br /><br />i could go on, i really could. anyone who is looking deeper into this movie than a straight up action comedy needs their head examined because that's all it is. there's nothing else to it! it's not supposed to be satirical or ironic. it's just crap.