literally every aspect of this science-fiction low-budget flick falls under the categories that have been classified for its predecessors, contemporaries, and those to follow. bad special effects, a weak storyline, ridiculous amounts of blood and gore, annoying and pointless characters, all that you can expect. "attack of the sabretooth" is about a new vacation resort where the proprietors are genetically engineering smilodon cats for an attraction. the cats escape and begin to kill people, the guy running the show wants to save them and not warn the unsuspecting visitors about them, and there is a band of visitors and some employees who rebel and plan to kill the cats.<br /><br />special effects-wise, the film is about an average achievement given its budget. the sabretooths are portrayed through poor cgi. amazingly, though, the cats look more realistic in an up-close, detailed shot rather than the longer, more distant shots where the cgi is better concealed. their attacks are recklessly bloody and distasteful. just as you'd expect, they attack, rip off some arms and legs, and leave very little behind. this is part of the reason why the film descends into poor schlock.<br /><br />the plot and characters are just as horrendous. we have some college kids who come to the island and they plan a scavenger hunt. and take it very, very seriously. even so much as to trespass on private property, tamper with security systems, and steal. why are they taking a simple game so seriously? did i miss something? was there money involved? or were they sent to do it? i don't know, i could barely follow the film. but it seemed to me like they were just doing it for the fun of doing it. even so, they went too far for normal.<br /><br />"attack of the sabretooth" is a very poor film. even for a low-budget sci-fi flick, it is a very poor and cheap example. it will bore most viewers to tears, might be attractive for some, and will make you chuckle and laugh all the way through. and keep in mind, this is not a comedy, this is a cheap horror flick, so it's not suppose to be comical.