three giant sabretooth tigers(..created in a laboratory from mitochondrial dna, a "genetic breakthrough" derived from fossil material)are on the rampage accidentally set free through a series of events(such as a computer geek's introduced virus in order to unlock security measures keeping the resort novelty shops closed during construction & a security guard's leaving a gate open while searching for the missing page from a porn mag that flew away in the breeze)that threaten the lives of those it comes in contact with. the tigers are always hungry, but are unable to digest what they eat. so pretty much the tigers just rip their prey to shreds. victims include a group of college kids(..the stereotypes include a goth girl, jock and tech nerd), security personnel, and those somewhat developed rich scoundrels who we can easily despise and wish horrible death.<br /><br />rounding out a series of bad sci-fi channel flicks, attack of the sabretooth has some of the most wretched computer simulated animals i've seen yet. and, the final death sequence is so putridly presented, you'll demand within the deepest recesses of your soul the time spent on this truly awful exercise in the creature feature canon. there's some good dark humor deriving from heads being torn from necks, but even here the prosthetic work is unconvincing. prosthetic body parts and blood aplenty as victims are pounced upon, crying for help and receiving none. i'm starting to sound like a broken record, repeating myself in every user comment i write for these sci-fi channel flicks. i think maybe it's time to move on to other kinds of cinema. robert carradine has a role as a ruthless businessman who is being wooed by his truly repellent ex-brother-in-law, nicholas bell, the one opening "primal park", a resort / zoo featuring genetically created sabretooth tigers as it's major attraction. stacy haiduk, still quite yummy, is a security officer who attempts to convince bell to get the investors he hopes to goad into putting money in his multi-million dollar project to leave the island. brian wimmer is haiduck's lover and his role is a mechanic keeping operations running smoothly.<br /><br />bell's fate at the end, resulting from a dislodged tooth from a sabretooth tiger statue is the pits. carradine spends a great deal of the film taunting bell, his arch nemesis. the tiger's point-of-view shows humans in a bright color as it moves towards them. the film ultimately consists of characters walking through darkened corridors(..the tech nerd's virus cut off the power)worried for their safety. the college kids commit breaking and entering to score certain items needed(..it's a scavenger hunt type of activity)to enter a fraternity / sorority. the cast playing these kids do not rise above their clich'es.