in a summer that also boasted such repugnant stinkers as snakes on a plane and the da vinci code, that's a pretty bold statement. but i stand by it nonetheless. superman returns, like king kong 6 months before it, is overlong, hyper-indulgent and with cgi up to the eyeballs. my god, this stuff is doing my head in.<br /><br />richard donner had the idea of 'keep it real' for his 2 outings. and i do find his approach to the special and optical effects to be the most appropriate. brian singer bombards us with so much cgi that it really takes you out of the story and constantly reminds you that you are watching a wannabe blockbuster that thinks that the only way to impress an audience is to spend $250 million (a totally irresponsible amount of money) on obnoxious visual effects that don't live up to the hype. we've seen everything and been everywhere that cgi can take us. there's no real atmosphere or involvement in this. and for a film that is 95% made up of this crap...well you figure it out.<br /><br />i've read so many reviews from fanboy critics about how the movie has 'soul' or 'a human heart' or 'tender character moments'. puh-lease! we've already had brooding superheros silently screaming 'you'd love me if you knew who i am' dozens of times already in recent years and sr offers absolutely nothing new in this regard. even the plot is recycled garbage. lex luthor (a seriously mis-cast and hammy kevin spacey) plotting to destroy the landmass of america was done in the first film already! and, well...that's your lot! it's amazing that they managed to draw out this junk to 2.5 painful hours! even if the cast were likable it would make it less unbearable. but brandon routh has the on screen personality of a mahogany hat-stand, kate bosworth is completely unconvincing as a pulitzer prize-winning journalist, james marsden is 250% wooden, as usual and kevin spacey really needs to either fire his agent or acquire some better judgement. the only cast member i liked was the lovely parker posey. but i'm into weird-looking girls.<br /><br />every year films like this get bigger and more bombastic. pretty soon we'll have $300 million films. studios need to realise that maybe they should start looking down instead of looking up. for all the money that warner spent on this pile of crap, for all the resources that this movie cost to make...was it worth it? in my opinion, certainly not! this garbage has put me of superman for life!