thhe remake was a superior movie remake in every way. most remakes end up being total garbage but under the very talented direction of alexandre aja became one of the best ever made in terms of remakes and also as far as the mutant inbreed human sub-genre of horror is concerned. in steps part 2 directed by another individual martin weisz and written by the father and son combo of jonathan and wes "i cannot make a good horror movie to save my life anymore" craven and if this is any indication of weisz directing skills and young craven's writing skills we are all in for a painful future as thhe 2 not only fails to be as good as the first but also fails to entertain on any level.<br /><br />we start off with a fairly graphic mutant baby birth which though is rather cool will not prepare you for the utter garbage that is to come, only hint to what could have been in this film. we then get to see a crew of scientists who all to briefly are introduced and dispatched by our radiated rejects. in steps our main cast of army reservist to save the day, this is where the major problems begin.<br /><br />from very sub par acting (yes even for this kind of movie) to the horrible characters to the lack of true carnage for most of its running time thhe 2 becomes a labor to watch as a lot of nothing happens as idiotic soldiers make mistake after mistake only to meet there demise not by the mutants but themselves. think the marines in aliens only the exact opposite and you have the idea of how well these soldiers are trained. this is the true shame of the film as most of the hills occupants do not get the kills you would like to see, like in the first film, in fact if this did not have thhe 2 attachment in the beginning and the brief overview in the beginning tying this loosely to the first this could have nearly been a sci-fi channel original.<br /><br />the mutant mountainbillies as well are not as amusing this time around in fact in a lot of way they are far inferior to our prior batch as they all come off as being rather under designed and uninteresting. also the one that took the cake was the sloth-like mutant (you know sloth from the goonies) who helps them out in the 3rd act. i was waiting for him to ask for a baby ruth or start going on about rocky road ice cream. truly disappointing and shameful is the only way to describe most of the goings on here.<br /><br />the gore is in the film but not nearly as visceral as the original in fact it seemed toned down for the most part as other than the mutant baby birth scene there really isn't anything that stood out like in the first. another major strike against this movie. so what did work here, the answer is nothing at all. this felt like a sequel designed specifically to make money off the success of the first and not to make an actually "good" film.<br /><br />i can go on about the crappy drill sgt., the radio man that has a speech impediment (that's right, he is the kind of guy i want radioing in for help in a real crisis) or the pacifist fighter that resembles the exact same character mold as our "hero" in the first film but i believe you get the point. this movie is not even in the same league or even the same planet as the first. it should have been given another title and been added to the saturday night line up on the sci-fi channel. a true shame as a solid sequel could have been made but alas it looks like another horror movie that drops the ball on nearly every level and will get one of my lowest scores as i give thhe 2 the same score as its part: 2/10 dreadful: words cannot describe how bad this movie is a total polar opposite of its predecessor in every way, uninspired and down-right unnecessary. next time guys if your going to make a sequel this bad...don't even bother. please don't go support this garbage at the theaters, save your money and thank me later!!!!