i saw this film on its release, and have watched it 3 or 4 more times, including last week. i regret i have to be a voice of dissension with regard to mr. branagh's performance.<br /><br />this is really a glorious, sumptuous film, to say nothing of ambitious at over 4 hours long - beautifully shot and designed. derek jacobi, julie christie, kate winslet, richard briers, and many others do fine jobs. then there's kenneth branagh. if ever there was a vanity project for an actor, this is it, and mr. branagh spares nothing in putting the "ham" in hamlet. from the stunt casting (which gives us the worst performance ever by the woefully miscast jack lemmon), to the bits of distracting business thrown in to infuse a sense of "naturalness," to his own performance which runs the gamut from throwing away the single most famous soliloquy in all of literature to screaming every line of others. his performance confirms that, while he may come across better on stage where bigger is necessary, he has never been a great film actor. the scenery budget could be charged to catering, mr. branagh eats so much of it. his performance is a perfect example of why people don't go to see shakespeare - "full of sound and fury, signifying nothing." and if there is fault to his direction, it is that he keeps the camera firmly glued on his overblown performance.<br /><br />no matter what theories people may posit on the bard, he was, after all is said and done, a playwright. the brilliance of his plays rest in the fact that his themes are universal and timeless. although there is no "right" way to play his plays, there is most certainly great acting, good acting and bad acting. shakespeare himself gives instructions to the players in the text of "hamlet" itself. it amazes me how mr. branagh "mouthed" it, but did not hear it. it was an example of spending too much time working out how he's going to say something, and too little figuring out what he's saying.<br /><br />while mr. branagh has certainly done a wonderful job in mounting some entertaining productions, he would be wise to stay behind the camera and allow those who know the art of acting to practice it. his direction has always been better than his acting. i still give him immense credit for resurrecting interest in filming shakespeare. he set a great template for other productions. and, it would be interesting to see him onstage, from about 20 rows back. but, i do hope he chooses to direct more and act less.<br /><br />is it worth seeing? certainly. there are many little joys to be found in the film. but, it's a long, long movie and, by the end, one may feel less that they enjoyed than survived it.