most would agree that the character of wolverine is one of the most intriguing characters in comic book history. i'm no marvel expert, but i did grow up with the adventures of the x-men and definitely approved of hugh jackman's now widely known portrayal of the scruffy logan. i enjoyed the first x-men, found the sequel too heavy and messy and liked the third one as comic book entertainment. all through the three movies, i probably enjoyed jackman more than anything else. i figured the idea of making an "origins"-movie about wolverine could very well end up being a better movie than all of the three x-men movies. if we concentrate on one character, i figured there could be a movie that achieves what i found the second movie failed at - being a fairly complex and character driven comic book adventure.<br /><br />the reason that the wolverine-movie fails is not because the competition is tougher after the dark knight. it's not even because of a plot development that is beyond obvious and rudimentary - even though that certainly isn't good - no, it's because the movie doesn't even seem to try. to begin with, this does not qualify as good entertainment. there is something about the action in this movie that comes off as so very, very automatic. with no greater special effects or elements of suspense, and when one event will make you predict the following five, it almost feels like an uwe boll movie, imitating an action/adventure movie concept that you've seen a dozen times before. of course, nothing in this movie is as downright awful as a piece of bolls**t but when everybody's talking clich'es as if they are part of a chain of events that is so standard, you at least make the connection and that surely is bad enough.<br /><br />but there is an even bigger problem. even a generic action movie is a generic action movie and, by the way, that makes you forgive a lot of plot holes and character stupidities. i think you find the most fundamental flaw in the very title. i mean, "origins". really? what to the people behind this movie think about that title? what do they mean?? you want to know the origins of wolverine? he grew up with his brother. they ran away from home during dramatic circumstances. then they went off to war. all of them! the civil war, world war i and ii and vietnam too. why did they do this? still unknown. eventually, the brother (sabertooth, played by liev shrieber) became evil. "how?" you ask. i don't know, it was somewhere between omaha beach and hanoi. "yeah, but why?" you still ask. i just said i don't know!! the movie doesn't explain. he's evil alright! "yeah, but... you know, 'origins'"... yeah, well that's an origin! i mean, duh! anyway, eventually they end up with a super secret team of mutant elite soldiers. something with the government, ho-hum. wolvie gets enough and leave his brother. for six years he's a happy lumberjack with a loved one, who ends up a little defenseless around the time sabretooth suddenly appears again. "yeaaah... but... whyyyy?" - oh shut up! - and wolvie decides to be a guinneapig for a bunch of evil scientist who make him a flesh-covered metal war animal. he goes after all the bad guys and they come after him and after all the fighting he ends up with his memory wiped, cue x-men the first movie.<br /><br />there. that's the origin. you can also find it on the back of the dvd cover. the actual movie won't tell you anything else. with no worthwhile scenes of action, no good heroes, villains or characters in general (lines from my couch audience: fat suit! token black guy! oh, i give you 200 in cash if that girl survives this movie.., that is supposed to be gambit...? mmhm, yeah well... uh-huh, right), not one line of memorable dialog and zero lines to cover a t-shirt with, added to that the common stupid things that ruin the plausibility in general that you might usually forgive...... well, that sounds pretty much like a waste of time, right? fans will check this out, or have already. there's no stopping that. but if you liked the x-men movies for no other reason than that they were well-made and entertaining - see them again and do yourself no favors by trying to look for origins where there are none.