soulless milking of cash cow franchise. generic superhero flick. cgi showcase. gavin hood's "a series of improbable events." combinatoric iteration of mutant fight scenes strung together by inane exposition justifying formation/dissolution of arbitrary alliances. i'm not expecting shakespeare here but the clich'e per minute meter was off the charts: primal scream while looking skyward and kneeling over murdered girlfriend. renegade military commander. predictable double crosses. revenge sought for slain lover. erased memories. evil character discovering morality at last minute. misguided failures to execute nemeses after defeating them in melee. lover not really dead. lover actually acting as spy for hero's arch-nemesis. girlfriend/spy actually falls for protagonist. good people work for antagonist in order to save kidnapped family members. evil mastermind fails to honor promises to reluctant employees. kindly old couple care for weary hero and get murdered for their troubles. certain deaths averted as third parties arrive on scene before coup de grace. hero reluctantly joining secret government agency. abandonment of elite squad in protest over slaughter of innocents. scientists unable to control indestructible killing machine of their own creation. outdated but lovable government 'secret weapon' kills off better designed but heartless successor. hero strolls away from wreck and casually lights a trail of gasoline behind him. after everyone has given up, flatlined heart monitor picks up a pulse. evil mastermind explains plans to hero he no longer sees as a threat. hero refuses to kill defeated foe because he's "better than that". transparent comic relief character makes hilarious understatements and offbeat comments. cheerful psychopath revels in random murderous rampages. nigh indestructible goliaths hurl one another through a series of walls and other physical traumas that would kill a mere mortal. man dispatches dozens of gun wielding enemies with nothing but skillful swordplay. common sense and the laws of physics, biology and chemistry temporarily abandoned. antagonist using loved one's murder as justification for misguided crusade.<br /><br />i could go on but this is just exhausting. if you're over the age of twelve and not living in mom's basement, there's probably nothing here for you. depressingly enough, it's not too far off of par for superhero movies so discount all i've written if you can't get enough of the genre.