i am a relative latecomer to the transcendent work of film auteur yasujiro ozu, whose masterfully understated views of japanese life, especially in the post-wwii era, illuminate universal truths. having now seen several of his landmark films such as 1949's "late spring" and 1953's "tokyo story", i am convinced that ozu had a particularly idiosyncratic gift of conveying the range of feelings arising from intergenerational conflict through elliptical narratives and subtle imagery. it is taiwanese director hou hsiao-hsien's keen aspiration to pay homage to ozu on his centenary with this generally enervating 2003 film. among with co-screenwriter t'ien-wen chu, hsiao-hsien appears to get the visuals right but does not capture the requisite emotional weight that would have made the glacial pacing tolerable.<br /><br />the story concerns y^oko, a young japanese writer researching the life of mid-20th century taiwanese composer jiang wen-ye in tokyo after coming back from taiwan where she taught japanese. after 25 drawn-out minutes of character set-up, she reveals to her father and stepmother that she is pregnant by one of her students in taiwan. at the same time, y^oko's coffeehouse friend hajime, who runs a used bookstore, has an obsession for trains and seems likely to be in love with her. hsiao-hsien connects this slim plot line with a series of shots held for inordinately lengthy takes as the frame composition changes. there are also long stretches of silence as well as an abundance of scenes featuring trains. while these techniques are consistent with ozu's style, hsiao-hsien cannot seem to dive into the characters' psyches the way ozu did with maximal fluidity and minimal theatrics, in particular, y^oko's plight seems rather non-committal in the scheme of the drama presented and her parents' reaction overly passive to hold much interest. in fact, the whole film has an atmosphere of exhaustion about it, which makes the film feel interminable.<br /><br />the performances are unobtrusive though hardly memorable. j-pop music star yo hitoto brings a natural ease to y^oko, while tadanobu asano is something of a cipher as hajime. the rest of the characters barely register, even nenji kobayashi and kimiko yo as y^oko's parents. cinematographer lee ping-bing provides expert work though he violates a cardinal rule of ozu films by not keeping the camera stable during shots. hitoto speak-sings the fetching pop song used over he ending credits, "hito-shian". the dvd includes an hour long, french-made documentary, "m'etro lumi`ere", which actually does help provide some of the context for hsiao-hsien's approach to the film. it includes excerpts from ozu's films, in particular, "equinox flower", to show the parallels with this film though surprisingly no mention of either "tokyo story" or "early summer", the obvious basis for some of the scenes and situation set-ups. there are also edited interview clips of hitoto, asano and hsiao-hsien, as well as the film's trailer.