creepshow 2 is the ill-fated sequel to the george romero's (overrated) original, creepshow. any sequel following a romero film that's not directed by romero himself has got some large shoes to fill, mostly because of the romero fans out there who think he's god. i didn't care much for the first film and funny enough, i didn't care much for the sequel. the film series had so much potential but it was short-lived because both films were less than stellar. <br /><br />the biggest problem with creepshow 2 was that it only had three stories (excluding the in-between story), and because the first story sucked beyond belief, it only left the chance for almost half of the movie to be *really* good. i saw cs 2 at the movies and the first segment was a real groaner. anything dramatic with george 'i can't act' kennedy is automatically doomed and the indian statue story was too hokey and simply didn't belong in this sequel. so after a really trite and dull start, there were only two other stories left to reverse the fiasco of the aborted beginning and unfortunately the two other stories weren't great enough for me to forget the first story. the raft and the hitchhiker are moderately successful, moderately because though the two other segments have their moments, they still sorta fall flat. the two last stories are basically stretched out for too long. it's not that i wanted the stories to happen at a dizzying pace and end fast, but both good ideas found within those stories were sorta nullified by the fact that they were slow and padded and eventually fell flat when the segments needed to be more energized, more erratic and with punchier endings. also, if the two last stories hadn't been stretched out to pad the movie or had all three segments been more brief with better editing and direction, they could have added a much needed fourth story to the bunch. having only three padded segments made for a boring feast.<br /><br />the acting and writing in both the raft and the hitchhiker segments are from awful to good. i like lois chiles in the last segment. it's probably her best moment on screen aside from her role as bond girl holly goodhead in moonraker and in death on the nile. but even her role is difficult to understand at times because of the serviceable direction and the unfocused story. are we supposed to hate her or sympathize with her? are we supposed to sympathize with the annoying hitchhiker? if the hitchhiker's body was found by other people on the road, what was he when he attacked chiles? was he a ghost or a zombie or what? how did the body eventually left the presence of the other people who found him dead in order to attack chiles? the whole thing is not very clear, even for a supernatural story. and the ending is rather dull and uneventful.<br /><br />as for the infamous the raft story, well, the acting is mostly on the awful side and none of the characters are sympathetic or interesting. the characters would have been more interesting had the actors played themselves. none of the actors are convincing in their specific roles. paul satterfield looks smarter than the dumb jock he's playing and the actress who plays his girlfriend is not very convincing as the typical bitchy slut. she seems too timid. the same could be said with the two others who play the "plain" teens. the idea of the killer oil slick is interesting and creepy but not well executed. there should have been a fifth character to the story, maybe a homeless man or a ranger who lurks around the lake and knows about the oil slick and could have been the watery monster's alter ego of sorts. as creepy as the oil slick is, it doesn't make for a compelling "character". and the way the story ends, everything seems pointless. no punch to it whatsoever.<br /><br />except for the few titillating aspects which always seems to make boring things worthwhile, seeing creepshow 2 at a theater was basically a waste of money and time. cs 2 is more rental material than something you pay to see on the big screen.