i might not be a huge admirer of the original "creepshow", but its trashy sequel makes that anthology look like perfection! and to think i was going into this expecting to like this one more. five years after its predecessor, george romero gets back on board the ec comic style trail and on this outing pens the screenplay for steve king's three stories. though, the direction is handed off to michael gornick. the film mostly falters in that aspect with uneven brushes by gornick. but most of the blame would have to go to romero's dreadfully static and unbearably cringe-like script (especially in those dialogues streaming through the first and final story). moralistic messages (that came from mostly a sour bunch of characters) simply took over the black humour. oh it was painful and the same can be said about the lively rotten music score accompanying the picture. loosely linking the three tales (old chief woodenhead, the raft and the hitchhiker) together is a mildly curious and effective wraparound story done in nostalgia (80s) animation form. i rather liked this segment and the wisecracking creep character was a glowing light. <br /><br /># the first story "old chief woodenhead" sees two elderly proprietors (george kennedy & dorothy lamour) of a general store in a dying native community, dead river. get robbed and eventually killed by a couple of punks dying to live it up in hollywood. in front of the store is a wooden statue of an indian chief that comes to live to avenge their deaths. <br /><br />-listen to george kennedy waffle.. and waffle on for 10 minutes about how he's committed to his 'great' community. what a nice touchy feely time. well, just like kennedy's speeches, this is one monotonously colourless and overdrawn item that never makes good of a fine premise. the overbearing script is plain inane and the performances are suitably so. these two factors really added to my headache. when the indian comes alive and turns avenger, the goons meet a very quick (though grisly) death in the proper fashion. the effects were commendably done, but what about that free flowing hair. how could hollywood knock that lock of hair back? ugh! <br /><br /># second story "the raft" follows a group of dope smoking and yahoo teens heading up to a secluded lake. after swimming to the raft in the middle of the lake, they get trapped on the platform because of an ominous looking creature lurking in the water. <br /><br />-now this is much better, much better. what starts of as your basic teens run afoul turns into a mysteriously creepy set-up that's full of tight and claustrophobic tension. and it doesn't even cop out on the flashes of nudity or spiteful splatter. quite morbid it is and that goes for its sense of humour too. the surprisingly ironic ending has a beautiful touch to it. the performances from the nobodies are acceptable without making a huge mark. gornick's direction sticks to the nasty and rather gooey side. while, the alarming music score on this occasion pressed the right chords. the sludge-like creature in the lake (like many have mentioned) looks like an icky black tarpaulin (yeah you're reading that right!) floating on the water. <br /><br /># finally number three concludes with "the hitchhiker". a wealthy, but sexually lacking woman is on her way back home after being with her male gigolo, but she's is running late. thinking of some ideas to explain for her lateness if needed, she skids off the road and accidentally hit's a hitchhiker. instead of checking or getting help, she drives off in the hope getting home before her husband. soon enough she's being terrorised by the mangled corpse of the dead hitchhiker.<br /><br />-not awful, but i really didn't get into this laughably ludicrous exercise at all. compared to the first two this one was so different in tone and tried to tickle the funny bone instead. lois chiles was okay in the lead role, but that constant assuring and the little conversations she has with herself became pitifully aggravating and downright tired. the vivid make-up effects are well-displayed and dripping with vision. when she hit's the hitchhiker that's when it becomes hectic, cheesy and over-the-top in its execution. from there onwards we endlessly hear our supposedly dead hitchhiker repeat and repeat