it's hard to tell if noonan and marshall are trying to ape abbott & costello, martin & lewis, curley & larry, or some other comedy team, but whoever it was they were trying to imitate, they failed miserably. there's barely one weak laugh in this whole incredibly stupid picture. noonan (who helped write the alleged "script") and marshall have no chemistry whatsoever; marshall seems to be trying for a dean martin type of devil-may-care coolness, but he doesn't come even remotely close. god knows what noonan thought he was doing, but being funny sure wasn't it. he seems to think that flapping his arms and legs a lot and staring dumbly at everyone and everything is the height of screen comedy; maybe for him it is, but not for the audience. i remember seeing this in the theaters when it came out. it was on the bottom of a double bill with a three-year-old jeff chandler western ("pillars of the sky," which was pretty good) and a three stooges short ("sappy bullfighters", which wasn't), and about 20 minutes into this thing all the kids in the audience were throwing stuff at the screen; it was so staggeringly unfunny that it didn't even measure up to the worst of the three stooges shorts. i stayed around for the end of it (not that i wanted to, but my folks weren't due to pick me up until after the movie ended), and by the time this mess was over, i was the only one in the theater. i saw it again about 15 or so years ago on cable one night, and stuck around to watch it to see if it was as bad as i remembered. it was worse. the only thing it had going for it was julie newmar, who was as smokingly hot as ever; other than her, this thing has absolutely nothing to recommend it. the two of them also play japanese soldiers, and the way they do it makes jerry lewis' infamous playing of japanese characters as thick-lensed, buck-toothed, gibbering mental defectives look benign by comparison. marshall went on to host "hollywood squares," and noonan kept trying his hand at making movies, but most of them were almost as bad as this. not quite, though, as i don't think anything could be quite as bad as this. a truly pathetic waste of film. don't waste your time on it.