this is another one of those 'humans vs insects/eco-horror' features; a theme that was popular in the late 70's. only you can't really call it horror. there's zero suspense and no gruesome events. in other words: this movie is pretty lame. it's not that it's really bad or something; it's just very boring. a construction site near a hotel uncovers a big nest of ants. later on we learn that, probably due to different sorts of pesticides used in the past, their bite became poisonous. some people get bitten and rushed to the hospital and it takes ages for the residents of the hospital to figure out what's going on. robert foxworth figures it out first and then you can see him go berserk with a digging machine for what seems like several hours. then they flee in the house, waiting to get rescued. and, man, you should see all the efforts they make for rescuing them. i won't spoil too much, but at one point they even use a big helicopter. all the time when i was watching this, i sat there thinking "come on, people, you all got shoes on. just run out of the building. i'm sure a bunch of ants won't catch up with you." it's all pretty ridiculous.<br /><br />of course, lots of close-ups of crawling ants are shown throughout the whole movie. ants in the garden. ants in the garbage. ants in the kitchen. ants on the roof. ants in the bedroom. ants in the sink. and the best part: ants crawling on people's faces while the actors are breathing through straws. but when you see groups of ants in wider shots, they indeed look like black rice the set designers glued to the wall.<br /><br />one small surprise came near the end. no, it has nothing to do with a twist in the plot. it was just that brian dennehy made an appearance as a chief-fireman. ehrr... what more can i say? this movie is called it happened at lakewood manor but the box-art of my copy read ants and the title during the opening credits was panic at lakewood manor. there you have it. now, since this is a made-for-tv movie from the 70's, i'll be once again extremely mild in my final rating. now, the savage bees, another 'humans vs insects' tv-movie from 1976 was much better than this one. i even feel i have to go back and add a few points to its rating after having seen ants. lacking suspense, action, thrills, shocks and creepiness, the only thing you'll be left with after seeing ants is an annoying itch.