final score: 1.8 (out of 10)<br /><br />after seeing 'jay and silent bob strike back' i must have been on a big eliza dushku kick when i rented this movie. 'soul survivors' is a junk "psychological thriller" dressed up like a trashy teen slasher flick - even to the point of having a masked killer stalk a cast of young up-and-comers like dushku, wes bentley (american beauty), casey affleck (drowning mona) and likable star melissa sagemiller. luke wilson is also in there, ridiculously miscast as a priest. the movie, the brainchild of writer/director stephen carpenter, seems like a mutant offspring of 'open your eyes' or 'vanilla sky' and movies where a character (and the audience) is caught in a world of dillusion caused by an accident/death. the movie keeps churning out perplexing images and leaves us in a state of confusion the entire running time until this alternate reality is finally resolved. i don't think these movies are that entertaining- by their very nature- to begin with, but 'ss' is rock-bottom cheap trash cinema any way you slice it. the visuals, the script, the acting and the attempt at any originality all are throwaway afterthoughts to movies like this. plus, it's pg-13 so it doesn't even deliver the gore or t&a to sustain it as a guilty pleasure (even the unrated version is tame). i had heard that the movie contained some "hot" shower scene between dushku & sagemiller. as the movie fell apart in front of me and all other entertainment seemed to be lost i found myself waiting patiently for the shower scene - at least i would get something out of this. then it comes: the two girls get paint on their shirts, they jump in the shower fully clothed and scrub it off. that's it. people thought this was hot? 'soul survivors' is one of those drop-dead boring movies that is so weak and inept that it is hard to have any feelings at all toward it. it puts out nothing and is hardly worth writing about. in the end it leaves us empty. carpenter's finale is a mess of flashing light and pounding sound and that's probably the most lively part. it will no doubt be making the rounds as a late night staple on usa or the sci-fi channel, due to it's low cost and pg-13 rating - and that's probably best for it.