i didn't think this was as absolutely horrible as some people apparently do. it passes as one of those cheesy horror movies you might waste time with in the middle of the night when you can't sleep, although admittedly it's no better quality than that. it's true that the acting isn't great - i thought marianne mcandrew as cathy beck, for example, came across as completely passionless - but the main problem is that several aspects of the plot didn't really make sense to me. the becks are on a trip described by john (stewart moss) as part work and partly the honeymoon they never had (now that's romantic!) the work part has something to do with touring caves, which in itself sounds strange (how does being part of a tour group through a cave relate to anyone's work?) but it gets stranger when we find out that he's a doctor doing research in the area of preventative medicine (huh? that connection completely lost me.) bitten by a bat while he's in the cave, he begins to transform into what i guess was supposed to be a human-bat hybrid (although when we finally see him in makeup he looks a lot more like an ape-man of some sort) and a killing spree starts. here's another problem. the first killing is a nurse in a hospital. at first, everyone thinks her death was an accident. the second murder is of a young girl, who is described as having her throat ripped out. the sheriff (michael pataki) then tells us that her death was similar to the nurse's (meaning throat ripped out? - how could anyone think that was an accident?) and what's with the sheriff? he seems pretty no-nonsense until the scene in cathy's hotel room when he takes a swig of liquor and then almost rapes her, after which everything seems to go back to normal. it's saddled with an ending that left almost everything unresolved, and also with one of the most irritating theme songs i've ever heard in a movie. even for all that, there was something here that kept me watching. sometimes pure cheesiness can get you through an hour and a half. pretty bad, yeah - but not as awful as some people say.