a truly disturbed, cannibalistic psychopath, john(gary kent, under the pseudonym michael brody) who lives in a cave, stalks campers who make the unfortunate mistake of backpacking in his wilderness. steve(dean russell)and his buddy charlie(john batis)get into a playful argument with their wives, sharon(tomi barrett, the late real-life wife of gary kent))& teddi(ann wilkinson)over surviving in the woods camping by themselves. to prove a point, the gals decide to head for the wilderness out of los angeles for a camping trip disturbing their partners to the point that they soon follow afterward. falling prey to john, teddi is soon killed as sharon runs for her life as the men arrive late to the wilderness due to their truck's overheating. afraid, tired, and paranoid, sharon receives some very unusual assistance..john's ghost children! that's right, john's children remain in the wilderness, ghostly apparitions which spy on those who exist in the woods, taking a special liking to sharon, helping guide her to safety and her friends. meanwhile, steve and charlie soon find shelter from a down pour and the darkness of night in the very cave where john lives. cooking over a burning fire, the meat simmering is actually from charlie's wife, teddi! unknowingly charlie eats from the meat when offered by john who finds the outsiders inside his dwelling place! anyway, soon, worried about their wives, steve and charlie set out to find them as morning breaks. meanwhile, john goes a hunting, with charlie, steve, and sharon in a fight for survival. when steve suffers a compound fracture stumbling between two massive rocks over a flowing river, he will be handicapped only increasing such an already nightmare scenario, with sharon following her ghostly young friends to potential safety..they even, at one point, plead with their father to not kill her. charlie, unfortunately, doesn't have such friends.<br /><br />director donald jones(..who also wrote it and went broke funding the film)smartly shoots the film in such a breathtaking, gorgeous location in the sequoia national park, in california, where those gargantuan trees tower to great heights, and i basically watch backwoods slashers for this very purpose. for some strange reason, i didn't particularly find jones' direction of the setting very atmospheric..the dread was missing, although there are some rather disturbing attacks by john using his knife(..shot in a clever way, jones' camera suggests more than what is actually on screen, yet, somehow, still achieves that gasp at what john is doing to victims). within such a picturesque landscape, to see innocents preyed upon by a maniac, that kind of increases the terror. city folk attempting to spend a nice few days in a different place, to smell the clean, fresh air, enjoy the sights of a lovely view, only to find themselves stalked by a creepy predator with a very intimidating knife. providing the back-story to why john is the monster he is, jones allows us to witness his memory flashback in discovering his wife's adultery and reacting accordingly(..she is also a ghost in the wilderness looking for her children, wishing to punish them for "being naughty")killing both her and the lover in bed(..a refrigerator repairman). the children, sad and depressed committed suicide and now "haunt" the wilderness, still interacting with their pa or whoever they so choose. i realize such a novelty as ghost children in a backwoods slasher is unique and appreciated by some, but i found the idea rather hokey and too silly to take serious. they do help our heroine escape a few potentially dangerous situations, but it was awfully hard for me to keep from giggling uncontrollably. the music i found hideously 80's and the performances aren't mind-blowing. i mean i could react to the situation they were in, because it is indeed quite terrifying to find yourselves in an unfamiliar and hostile territory being hunted by someone who knows the area so well. i think the film is similar in many ways to don't go into the woods..alone!, except that the forest has the aforementioned ghost children(..their voices echo when talking to sharon, their father, or each other). gary kent looks like a filthy george lucas, with tattered clothes, and humanity lost. as i mentioned above, the violence isn't as grisly as what is suggested because director jones is able to effectively cut away from a great deal of knife penetration, yet the way he stages the set pieces leave you rather unsettled(..such as teddi's murder, the violence mostly silhouetted on the surface of a nearby huge stone formation, her pleas for john to stop and, once stabbed several times, attempts to crawl away from her predator only to be finished off;a hanging corpse john is skinning). i've seen better and worse of this type of slasher film, it's rather mediocre, at best, with some effectively shot scenery. i don't really think it's particularly memorable, for the exception of the ghost children.