i mean of all the obscure, overlooked, low budget horror movies waiting to be re-discovered in a dvd release, why pick the forest? i love ultra low budget direct to home video or other alternative release horror. i love 80s hacker horror. i love backwoods slashers with fools wandering off into the night to be chased, murdered and eaten by psychopaths. i am all for the idea of non-professionals working on a horror movie as a way to maybe break into the industry or just making a movie because they want to make one. i am all for using found public locations, non-actors, no name talent behind the camera and in the studio. no problem! the most evocative image from the forest is it's opening shot of a couple walking in the distance across a forest into the woods: we see them as tiny, vulnerable creatures entering a dank gloomy world where humans may not be the top of the food chain or most feared predator. then the film takes a dive & never recovers -- we briefly meet the backpacking couple just as they realize that they are being stalked. they get separated, both are butchered, and then we meet the movie's protagonists as they drive their car in a traffic jam. they meet up with their respective mates and decide to take a camping trip. sounds of snoring fill the room as people who came over to watch a movie fiddle with their cell phones text messaging people not there telling them how much the movie sucks.<br /><br />this film is too slow, this movie is too boring, and this movie is too talky. which wouldn't be such a bad thing if the writers had given the people something to say other than the most stupid, asinine and unnecessary things. you know your horror movie is in trouble when the character with the most interesting lines is the droopy-faced park ranger who warns everyone away from the cannibal woods. and speaking of these "woods" they look about as far away from civilization as the overgrown vacant lot behind the soccer fields, only with bigger rocks and a stream flowing through it. there are impressive shots of the forest primeval, but no real sense of being out in the middle of it. if any one of the characters just sat down on the trail and waited long enough someone would amble by.<br /><br />what is worse about the film is that it fails to generate any human interest: i don't know who these couples are and don't care what happens to them. the hermit cannibal slasher guy is uninteresting even when pretending to saw freshly cooked meat off the leg of one of his victims to serve grisly bites to her boyfriend, who just happens to seek shelter in his cave. the irony of which is the epitome of "underwhelming". coupled with a deliberately ominous synthesizer music score, cinematography that suspiciously looks like someone strapped a camera on a dog and it follow people's movements, a lack of appreciable gore, nudity, lurid thrills and unwholesome atmosphere and what we have here is a horror movie that isn't even as frightening as a pbs educational tv show about how magnets work.<br /><br />i don't mean to "dish it out" to the people behind this film, since they obviously went into the project with next to nothing, did not push themselves to be creative and ended up with just another boring movie about some maggot chasing women through the woods with a knife. there is nothing wrong with that concept, what is wrong is the unimaginative and utterly pedestrian way this was executed, right down to the utterly pointless conclusion when the film simply peters out at about the 80 minute mark. the best thing that you can say about the forest is that it is over relatively quickly and there isn't much to command a repeat screening -- hence my confusion at why anyone would feel the need for a dvd release. it was fine as a prism video rental years oddity, as a dvd it will be $5.99 rack fare inside a month of hitting the shelves. there is little or no urgency to see the film, unless you are considering making your own ultra low budget backwoods hacker set in a public park where nobody can charge you money for filming there. here is a guide of steps to avoid making.<br /><br />with all that said and done, the film did have one interesting sequence, or rather one sequence that was so pathetic and ineptly thought out that it becomes an enigma in an otherwise cut & dried film: the madman comes home to find his wife in bed with the local contractor. he dispatches his beloved, arms himself with a kitchen knife that looks like it was made just to be used in a horror film and takes off after the interloper. the guy corners and attacks his quarry, who sidesteps & runs away, only to have the psycho materialize in his footsteps with a bigger, badder weapon. the psycho attacks again, and the guy gets away. the psycho materializes again, and once more the guy gets away. then again! finally on the fifth try the psycho trips the dude so to fall on some sort of a bladed contraption. how did he keep materializing armed with bigger badder weapons like that? is there some supernatural element to this psycho? since the film never makes it clear either way the scene is just an enigma, staged to build some tension. it's purpose remains unclear. the whole film is like that really, existing without any need to be made and executed in such a ham-fisted, uninteresting manner that one cannot help but wonder what the point of it was.<br /><br />3/10, and ample evidence that just because you can release a movie on dvd that doesn't mean you necessarily should.