ok, here it is: "nazi mountaineer befriends the dalai lama." what we do is, first we get a major star with no idea whatsoever how to do a germanic accent, and we let him flounder around between french, german, american, and british for over 2 hours. then we concoct a series of wildly improbable events and space them apart very widely, so that the plot inches along almost imperceptibly. but just to make sure the viewer doesn't fall asleep, we throw in details which are shockingly absurd, such as our hero smoking a cigarette at an altitude of 22,000 feet. naturally, we must also remember that our target audience does not want to read too many subtitles, so we have every character, even the lowliest peasant in the forbidden closed-off city of lhasa in 1943, speak perfect english, also with dubious accents. of course, the trickiest part is how to handle the spiritual and political aspects of the story, so what we do is this: we have the dalai lama befriend the now-reformed nazi because the latter is so good at fiddling with film projectors, radios, antique cars, and any other devices with represent the freedom of the capitalist west. in return, our hero learns from his young proteg'e a kind of vague, undefined buddhism which is never really brought out or treated in a serious fashion. we also have lots of scenes with the hero flaunting all the marks of respects and protocol which the rest of the tibetan society accords the dalai lama, even as we pretend that the hero has deep and profound reverence for these people and their spiritual leader. in other words, we just expect the audience to believe that this guy is now a buddhist, sort of, in his own way, even though we ourselves don't seem to know what his transformation entails or how far we want it to go. and last but not least, we hang a statistic onto the end of the film about how appallingly the chinese have treated the tibetans (which is certainly true), thus opening ourselves up to charges that we have made a "political" movie, even though it is nothing of the sort. so, zat ist my idea. vat do you zink? can ve make zis movie?