it's common practice for a film about repression to be somewhat muted in style and tone. there's a difference, however, between using restraint and encouraging narcolepsy among audience members. in "the secret lives of dentists," starring campbell scott and hope davis, director alan rudolph plays as close to the vest as possible, with the result being a film that never amounts to much beyond a rumination on how teeth are a metaphor for married life.<br /><br />scott gives a fine performance in the role of david hurst, a dentist married to another dentist (davis). rudolph sets up the dynamic of their relationship quickly - he is completely absorbed in the day-to-day duties of being the parenthood, she is quietly disillusioned with their frantic family life - and then ratchets up the tension when scott may or may not witness his wife with another man. from this point on, the film focuses on whether or not david is going to confront his wife dana about her possible adultery, or whether she will beat him to the punch and leave for good. from time to time, david is treated to visits from an imaginary "friend" in the form of a former patient played by denis leary (borrowing heavily from brad pitt's tyler durden in "fight club").<br /><br />while there is enough uncertainty about dana's infidelity and david's instability to warrant examination, the last two thirds of the film are embarrassingly empty of theme or narrative. instead, rudolph creates drama out of a nasty fever that travels slowly through the hurst family, culminating in a pointless hospital visit at the film's climax. the film never picks up on the hints at what david is really capable of if he wasn't so dedicated to his family; neither does it spend much time looking at dana's precarious balancing act between her family life and her other, more fulfilling ambitions.<br /><br />by choosing to spend the majority of the film worrying over a fever gone awry, rudolph kills the momentum of his film. by the time the fifth member of the family shows up sweating and sickly, the film has used up all the good graces of scott's well-measured performance. david and dana end up retracing their steps over and over again until a less than cathartic finale. with nothing to build on over the last hour, the conclusion seems awkward and patched-on. "the secret lives of dentists" takes a common theme and does nothing to improve upon it. altogether, a disappointing, unimaginative film.