hayden christianson and jessica alba two of my least favourite actors of this century team up in what is quite possibly the flattest attempt at remake the already dire the butterfly effect. awake is so dull and so utterly uninteresting that you'd be better off asleep. terrance howard still recovering from the diabolical august rush puts up a decent fight as the sadistic doctor who seems hell bent on killing christianson and after viewing his performance i would gladly assists.<br /><br />alba, still recovering after fantastic four rise of the silver surfer. is naturally disastrous and equally unwatchable as she always was. only once has she ever been rather brilliant at that was in the safe hands of master director robert rodriguez in sin city. could it possibly be that jessica alba isn't as poor of an actress as most give her credit for and is is possibly that her acting abilities are being weight down by a poor script. if so then that would explain awake. what with a script that would shame that of plan 9 from outer space.<br /><br />jessica alba, hayden christenson, and terrence howard star in first-time director/screenwriter joby harold's nerve-jangling psychological thriller about a man who experiences the frighteningly common surgical phenomenon known as "aesthetic awareness," in which those laid out on the operating table remain acutely aware of what is going on around them despite remaining completely paralyzed and unable to cry out for help. when a successful young young man (christenson) goes under the knife and realizes that the anaesthesia hasn't quite done its job, the horror quickly sets in as his worried wife (alba) waits anxiously and a terrifying drama unfolds in the operating room.<br /><br />hoping to do for operating tables what final destination did for planes, this first effort from director joby harold pivots on a blood-frosting conceit. the pre-credits sequence tells us one in 700 people suffers from a phenomenon known as 'anaesthetic awareness', where the patient remains conscious but paralysed during surgery. one such unfortunate individual is clayton beresford jr (hayden christensen), who finds himself wide awake during a heart transplant... and he can feel every single slice.<br /><br />intermittently inventive as it probes away at his tortured psyche, awake fails to inject true terror into its novel premise. spiralling from chilling simplicity into absurd conspiracy, it's hindered by stilted turns from christensen and jessica alba. you'll wish you'd popped a sedative before watching