so, has it really come to this? are we, as consenting adults, to blame for the next generation of cinema-goers lack of cinematic understanding and celluloid capability? concerning the wayans and co. latest addition to the moving pictures scenario; little man. this united kingdom p.g. (parental guidance), anyone under the age of twelve must be accompanied by a responsible adult, certificated movie, is the epitome of what has now developed into the worse case of dumbing down since cigarettes were "wiped out" from pictures of movie icons of the 1950's.<br /><br />the predominantly under twelve's audience here who, some without grown up supervision too, sat there, obediently, taking it all in, oblivious to their subject and the partly grown up features that little man portrays, in part at least too. movies, in general, can do better than this poor attempt, while this nonsense is getting them in while they are still young and fresh, the biggest fear for the future of cinema is that a child's ignorance just might carry on through to a grown up bliss. cinema deserves more than this, and so do its ever growing, and in the literal sense too, audiences, this blatant cash cow feeds on the ever-impressionable minds of the young.<br /><br />there is no cinema experience here, no open eyed wonder, no awe-inspiring respect to the magic of movies'. there is nothing but bewilderment and contempt, for the lack of substance, originality and its delivery of mind less tedium and parody of everything that is so now ultimately wrong with the hollywood machine, for the sake of a quick buck, we must endure our future cinema audiences to the likes of this archetypal disaster movie.<br /><br />will this have the likes of hitchcock, fassbinder, leone, kubrick and schaffner reeling in their graves? money they all liked, no doubt, but talent and exuberance for perfection and quality, and to a vast degree, respect for their profession and audience, they were never short off. we are seeing, once again, with the works of the wayans clan another clich'e of bad taste, while the likes of white chicks (2004) were in no doubt a stab at the bourgeoisie of american society. the irony here is that the two leading protagonists, played yet again, by the wayans brothers, are so much undercover, that all recognition is non-existent, this makes for a better movie too, and it is the actor terry crews that gives white chicks its substance and personality, not the wayans.<br /><br />yet again, with their pastiche of 1970's blaxploitation movies, as with the 1988 movie i'm gonna git you sucka, this to can be seen as a comical and amusing movie, with heavy weights as isaac hayes, jim brown, bernie casey and the gorgeous actress ja'net du bois. the point being, that little man has absolutely no persona of any kind what so ever, he is shallow and narcissistic, with no appreciation or value toward his followers, he quickly dives in takes your money and before we know it, has hidden himself within the cogs of commercialism. there is no recognisable effort as to where our money has been spent, after scary movie (2000), things could only have gone up, but alas they did not, no great pondering of artistic value and no doubt that the instalment from these intrepid movie moguls' next movies shall be straight to video, one can only hope.<br /><br />the wayans seem to have created a movie genre all by themselves, to a certain extent; they have bludgeoned to death the movie parody, they have watered down each and every avenue and with their inevitable style. they have slowly destroyed the reputation of the last one hundred years that cinema have given us, may the ghosts of movies past be ever so humble in their judgement, as their growing audiences, so far, seem to be, for when the bubble bursts, may they be as understanding too.