america. a land of freedom, of hope and of dreams. this is the nation that, since its independence, has striven to bring democracy, prosperity, and peace to the entire world, for the good of all mankind. there are times, however, when one cannot help but wish that the american's would just stay on their side of the atlantic. <br /><br />this 'movie' (and i use that word with some reservations) evokes these feelings with an intense purity. this vision of hell follows the adventures of calvin, a freakish jewel thief who was created by attaching the severed head of marlon wayan onto the body of a two foot-high dwarf. after inadvertently dropping a large diamond into the handbag of vanessa, a career-woman who is reluctant to have children, calvin realises that in order to recover the diamond he must ingratiate himself with her. so, as any normal man would, calvin dresses himself up as a 2 year-old and parks himself upon the poor woman's doorstep, where he is discovered by darryl, the broody husband of vanessa. <br /><br />darryl incongruously falls for calvin's disguise despite the fact that the 'baby' has a full set of teeth, stubble, a tattoo, a knife-scar, and the sex-drive of a 16-year-old. even more absurdly, vanessa doesn't see past calvin's baby-wear either and actually attempts to breastfeed the diminutive pervert. this wretched assault upon the soul of mankind attempts, and fails, to find humour in rape, scatology, sexual assault, and paedophilia, however, in a dishonest attempt to transform itself into a piece of 'family-entertainment' the wayan brothers stir in a sickening amount of sentiment and flawed morality. <br /><br />the brothers dim attempt a freudian rehabilitation of their thieving rapist by revealing that he "had a bad father". repeatedly hitting darryl in the crotch enables calvin to develop the loving father-son relationship that both he and darryl have always wished for. as if this wasn't ridiculous enough, calvin's attempts to sexually assault vanessa somehow convince her that it is selfish for a woman to indulge herself with a successful career, and that instead she should spend her life playing the role of the housebound little-woman, who spends her time alternatively squeezing out babies and cooking for her husband. <br /><br />in this movie the wayan brothers have mixed their crass and twisted form of humour together with the clich'ed sentimentality that has infected much of hollywood's recent body of work. additionally, they are endemic of the current generation of black comedians who are responsible for transforming african-american humour into a poor and wretched shadow of itself that over-indulges in fart-jokes and crude sexual gags. by rights these two should be legally barred from picking up anything even remotely resembling a camera ever again. <br /><br />unfortunately the current artistic and moral bankruptcy of american cinema means that by this time next month they will undoubtedly have filmed two sequels and be making millions of dollars from tacky merchandising deals.