this movie is all flash and no soul. the actors put a lot of passion into the numbers, but these numbers often didn't connect with the film and felt like stand-alone music videos. and no effort was made to make the numbers sound as if they were happening right there in front of you, every single one sounds like its coming from a studio, essentially sucking all the life from the songs. off the stage the performances were all dull and unrealized, especially hudson, who essentially plays the same angry, "strong" (she's stubborn and selfish) black woman we've seen before. there was absolutely no depth to her character, nor any of the other female leads. though i think the movie wants us to believe that hudson's character faces hardship because of her weight, it is really her own refusal to do what's best for the team that lands her in trouble, making the end of the film totally meaningless. hudson's academy award is a joke, there was no justification. when she sang, she put forth emotion (though it was often misplaced, but this was the writer/director's fault), but when she was just acting, she did nothing to flesh out an already underwritten character. eddie murphy's character is the only one with an arc, and he did a fine job, but still not oscar worthy. the only actor who really brought something to the roll was danny glover, who took a small, relatively unimportant character and made something real out of it. there is nothing here to sink your teeth into, no drama or heart, or even laughs. the placement of the musical numbers was so bad that at times the movie almost seemed to be making fun of musicals instead of being one; the number when hudson is arguing with the other girls is so long-winded if it had been any longer it could pass for a family guy skit. the movie has no idea what it's about, and i felt insulted by the last few minutes. it's a big, boring waste of time, and really is the worst film i saw in '06, and nothing last year was really stellar to begin with.