forest whitaker's performance is all the more impressive for making it almost worthwhile to sit through this dreck. "historical fiction" does not justify changing history. the absurdity begins from the ground up with the imaginary lead character played by james mcavoy. to create a fictional observer for the purpose of giving the reader a point of connection in the book is regrettable, regrettable that white people can't just read a book without a white protagonist to connect to, but at least he was placed in a somewhat passive role. making up a fake historical actor and crediting this fiction with exposing amin to the world is irresponsible, lazy and stupid. not making the actions of this creation believable or even sane is just criminal, and has opened the door for movies like the one they're planning to make with leonardo dicaprio as a heroic enron whistleblower who never existed. the logic of the world does not apply in this film where some scottish kid thinks its okay to sleep with the wife of a murderous dictator. it doesn't apply where the wife of the dictator desires to sleep with some stupid scrawny irresponsible white boy. for that matter everybody is lined up to sleep with this scrawny, irresponsible, arrogant white boy, he even has gillian anderson licking her comely chops.<br /><br />let me declare, i do not like james mcavoy. i'm not sure what it is about him, but i thought his mr. tumnus in narnia was creepy and pervy. i think that kerry washington would never look twice at him so i can't believe that the wife of a powerful dangerous man like amin would risk and lose her life for him. i don't believe him as a doctor, and i just don't see the appeal. his character seems to have far more arrogance than would make sense, and trying to make him look like a badass in shooting the cow was just...there's that word again...absurd. think about it, you are watching all of these characters bend themselves into knots in order to accommodate this unbelievable main character and there never was such a guy.<br /><br />gillian anderson looks incredible and sounds more british than most brits. whitaker gives a great expansive magnetic performance, and highlighted, with his incomprehensible pre-oscar speeches, just how much he was acting. it's a shame the film around him had no reason to exist.