ok, let me again admit that i haven't seen any other merchant ivory (the distributor) films. nor have i seen more celebrated works by the director, so my capacity to discuss before the rains outside of analysis of the film itself is mitigated. with that admittance, let me begin.<br /><br />before the rains is a different kind of movie that doesn't know which genre it wants to be. at first, it pretends to be a romance. in most romances, the protagonist falls in love with a supporting character, is separated from the supporting character, and is (sometimes) united with his or her partner. this movie's hero has already won the heart of his lover but cannot be with her. his name is henry moores and her name is sajani, and they reside in southern india during the waning days of the raj (british imperial rule). henry has been away from london for a long time and has fallen in love with his married indian maid, despite his legal marriage and child overseas. what could be better than that? they often sneak away for intimate afternoons until some children notice them. word spreads to sajani's husband who questions her involvement with moores. she denies any contact with him, but moores asks her to leave the area. sajani refuses because of her devotion to him and commits suicide. please take note that these events occur in the opening third of the film. the film changes tone and becomes a crime-drama in its final portions.<br /><br />sajani's body is discovered right as moores' family comes to visit. the alleged perpetrator is moores's english-educated assistant t.k. t.k. knows of his master's affair but keeps silent until his life becomes threatened. once he is declared innocent, he attempts to regain his honor by killing moores. t.k. is too squeamish and leaves him in a dirt path as the rains fall.<br /><br />i want to warn you, this isn't a romance film. the dvd cover and theatrical posters show an indian woman and caucasian man embracing in an idealized tropic setting. this image is captured directly from the film's opening, but quickly disappears. then it's over. it seems like an effort to capitalize on western fixation on forbidden love. it isn't effective, at all. not only is the movie not a romance, but its characters lack any personality. they are bundles of walking clich'es. moores is an arrogant white man who doesn't recognize his indian friend, t.k.'s intelligence. t.k. is torn between his own heritage and his educative background. sajani is a woman incapable of having a choice in her romantic life. oh, and, of course, moores' family is inquisitive into sajani's death but still slightly racist to indians. if the tone wasn't so serious, i would be willing to overlook these problems, but it isn't. the film is presented with a didactic overtone which highlights its poor character development.<br /><br />no, this film isn't terrible. other than the laughable screenplay, it isn't poor. the actors are all experienced and perform well here. nandita das, who plays sajani, was part of wonderful indian drama water. even director sivan has an impressive resume. he recently oversaw the terrorist, which is part of roger ebert's "great movies" collection. what happened here? why is this movie so bad? well, sivan mentioned how he was inspired to direct this film because of a short he viewed in israel called red roofs. apparently, the story was "timeless," and sivan sought to create a similar experience set in 1930's india. i don't have any problem with that approach, but i think sivan may have been too motivated this time. the actors, cinematography, and set design are acceptable but unless you share sivan's aura, you'll probably not enjoy it. my recommendation is that you presume you aren't in accordance with him and watch something else. final consensus: *and  1/2  out of *****