i can understand after watching this again for the first time in many years how it is considered one of the worst laurel & hardy's. for me, it isn't as close to as bad as "air raid wardens" and "the bullfighters", but there are some definite huge flaws in it. the film is set up to show laurel and hardy as the owners and instructors of the dance studio. hardy is funny as the prancing lead of a "london bridge" dance, surrounded by 20th century fox starlets, while in the next room, laurel teaches the beginners ballet while wearing a ballerina outfit. a clumsy carpenter spills glue on the floor, leading to a predicable gag where hardy ends up the looser. then, in come the racketeers, now selling insurance covering up their protection racket. one of them is a very young and handsome robert mitchum. but no sooner do they bully the boys into buying insurance, they are arrested.<br /><br />this is the end of the gangsters and the last time we see the dance studio. the rest of the film is devoted to laurel and hardy's support of wealthy patron trudy marshall and her inventor boyfriend, robert bailey. they first try to help them hide their relationship from her disapproving parents (matt briggs and margaret dumont) and hopeful suitor allan lane, whom we can tell right off is a no-good swine. this leads to briggs' hidden bar being revealed to tea-totaling dumont, and a gag where a rug is literally pulled out from the wealthy patriarch which crashes his bed into a pond below. when bailey uses the boys to help display his ray gun, pandemonium ensues. the dead-pan butler announces to case and dumont that their house is on fire.<br /><br />later, hardy wants to use the insurance policy to gain money to pay their dance studio rent and hopes to get laurel to break a leg to do so. there is no reference to the fact that the insurance salesmen were gangsters and that the policy would probably be invalid. (even if they were to have become legitimate insurance salesman, after being arrested, their licenses would have been revoked). laurel ends up getting off a bus which had been abandoned by the driver over a supposedly rabid dog (only a frosting covered, cake devouring toto look-alike, or possibly the actual pooch), causing oliver to end up on a huge beach roller-coaster that somehow the bus has ended up on, perfectly fitting its wheels onto the tracks. roller-coaster gags can be exciting, as evidenced in "abbott and costello go to hollywood", and this one is amusing but anticlimactic.<br /><br />as the story wraps up, all of these gags seem to have no point, giving the impression that this was simply a series of one-reelers put together to make a full-length feature, hopefully part of a double bill. l&h, as i've mentioned in other reviews of their later films, had lost much of their luster after leaving hal roach's employ, but surprisingly here, they do not come off as old and tired looking as they had in films made in the same year. had the gags not been as amusing, as was the case with some of their other films, this surely would have ranked a "2" as opposed to a "3".