i loved "the curse of frankenstein" so much that i rushed out to get "frankenstein must be destroyed" to see cushing at it again...even if it was without chistopher lee this time. to my great disappointment, this movie not only does without lee, but it does without frankenstein's monster altogether! was it a case of "if we can't get lee, we won't have a monster at all"? why would they do that? the monster is half the fun of the whole thing!! this film is dedicated solely to the study of baron frankenstein and his quest to finish experiments he had begun in brain transplants before ending up in an asylum. i found the script extremely weak, with the need to suspend disbelief forced upon the audience a little too much. i'm willing to suspend a fair amount, but this movie got fairly ridiculous, which took me out of the film rather than immersing me in it.<br /><br />peter cushing, though, is absolutely brilliant playing pure evil in this film. for being one of the most beloved actors and notoriously sweet men, he sure could play menacing and malevolent extremely well. the supporting cast is competent, but has little to do, even the young doctor and his fianc'ee blackmailed into helping frankenstein. a bumbling police chief is introduced, along with his put-upon sidekick, to generate some comic relief, then they are completely dropped from the movie! why? we are led to believe that the police chief will be the main nemesis of the baron, then we are led to believe it will be the young doctor, and then it ends up being the victim of frankenstein's brain transplant experiment. there was no tension, we weren't invested in the "creature", and the ending was left so ambiguous as to leave one unsatisfied because it is so clear they are setting up another sequel.<br /><br />also, there are virtually no "horror" elements. yes, there is a beheading in the beginning (off-camera), and we are treated to the sounds of cushing cutting the tops of two men's skulls off (again, off camera), and there is the most unsettling and thoroughly unnecessary rape scene (90% of which is, again, off-camera). i understand that there is a love of "letting the audience imagine it all, for their imaginations are far worse than what we can show", but come on, if you're not going to give us a monster, then at least let us see the few "horrific" elements you do choose to include. showing us a skeleton in the lab lit with a green light is just not scary.<br /><br />on top of a weak script, i thought the directing was mostly flat. there were a couple of nice shots, but otherwise no excitement, atmosphere, or suspense was generated. the same director did "curse" back in 1958 and i thought it was brilliantly directed...guess he was as uninspired by this film as i was.<br /><br />the movie gets a 4 out of 10 from me strictly for peter cushing's powerful, nuanced performance...beyond that, i found little in this movie worth recommending. instead, my suggestion is to watch "the curse of frankenstein" and see a truly great hammer horror film.