in europe, it's known as who dares wins; in america, it's known as the final option, but under any title this ludicrous sas action flick asks the audience to put their disbelief to one side for around two hours. i find it incredibly hard to comprehend how lewis collins (the hero here) was almost chosen as roger moore's successor in the bond films.... this guy is so expressionless he'd struggle to get a job in a waxwork museum (as a waxwork!!!) luckily, judy davis is on hand to partially redeem the affair with a meaty performance as a hard-line lady terrorist, and there's a climactic ten minute action sequence that is quite competently orchestrated by director ian sharp. let it be added that it's a very, very, very long wait for these closing excitements to come around, and i can't honestly say that a near two hour wait for a bit of decent action was worth the effort.<br /><br />sas hard man peter skellen (lewis collins) goes undercover among a group of peace protesters who would like to see the end of nuclear weapons stock-piling. he meets their leader frankie (judy davis), a strong-talking and opinionated woman who might just be capable of taking extraordinary measures to achieve her goals. frankie's dedicated bunch violently lay siege to the american embassy in london, demanding that a nuclear missile be fired at a naval base in scotland (she believes that when the world witnesses a nuclear blast for real, everyone will be so appalled that they will join her campaign for disarmament). unfortunately for frankie, she makes the mistake of taking skellen on her little embassy raid, and he plans to thwart their plan from inside with a little well-timed outside help from his sas comrades.<br /><br />the film is inspired - quite obviously - by the awesome sas assault on the iranian embassy in 1981. someone who saw that event on the news apparently thought it would be good to devise a film along similar lines. unfortunately, the film is rather banal, with too much stupid dialogue and a heck of a lot of embarrassingly bad scenes (the arch-bishop's debate which descends into a riot, anyone?) frankie's idea to bring about peace by instigating a nuclear blast is ridiculous anyway, so she becomes a laughable figure just when the audience is on the verge of viewing her as an interesting villain. who dares wins tries to be a celebration of the military legend that is the sas, but at the same time it dips into clumsy action clich'es and ill-thought-out plotting. the result is a well-intentioned but wholly ineffective slice of boy's own absurdity.