i caught this stink bomb of a movie recently on a cable channel, and was reminded of how terrible i thought it was in 1980 when first released. many reviewers out there aren't old enough to remember the enormous hype that surrounded this movie and the struggle between stanley kubrick and steven king. the enormously popular novel had legions of fans eager to see a supposed "master" director put this multi-layered supernatural story on the screen. "salem's lot" had already been ruined in the late 1970s as a tv mini-series, directed by tobe hooper (he of "texas chainsaw massacre" fame) and was badly handled, turning the major villain of the book into a "chiller theatre" vampire with no real menace at all thus destroying the entire premise. fans hoped that a director of kubrick's stature would succeed where hooper had failed. it didn't happen.<br /><br />sure, this movie looks great and has a terrific opening sequence but after those few accomplishments, it's all downhill. jack nicholson cannot be anything but jack nicholson. he's always crazy and didn't bring anything to his role here. i don't care that many reviewers here think he's all that in this clinker, the "here's johnny!" bit notwithstanding...he's just awful in this movie. so is everyone else, for that matter. scatman crothers' character, dick halloran, was essential to the plot of the book, yet kubrick kills him off in one of the lamest "shock" sequences ever put on film. i remember the audience in the theater i saw this at booing repeatedly during the last 45 minutes of this wretched flick, those that stayed that is...many left. king's books really never translate well to film since so much of the narratives occur internally to his characters, and often metaphysically. kubrick jettisoned the tension between the living and the dead in favor of style here and the resulting mess ends so far from the original material that we ultimately don't really care what happens to whom.<br /><br />this movie still stinks and why so many think it's a horror masterpiece is beyond me.