"plan b" is strictly by-the-numbers fare except for one thing. i surprisingly found it to be rather insulting.<br /><br />jon cryer is the "star" of this film and plays his usual, smarmy, egotistical, snotty character that was actually endearing in "pretty in pink" and has not been amusing ever since. grating doesn't even begin to describe his performance. ricky (mark matheisen) is a muscular, blonde, struggling actor who (gasp!) is only worried about his hair and getting laid. talk about a stock character...ugh. at least the other three characters are somewhat engaging. lisa darr and lance guest play a grounded, optimistic, caring couple who are struggling to conceive. since they are not whiny drama queens, however, their roles are apparently considered boring and they aren't given enough screen time. sara mornell rounds out the cast by playing gina, your usual nice and good-looking young woman who just can't seem to find the right partner in love. i've seen this character a million times before but at least her performance overcomes some of the shortfalls caused by the predictability of her situation.<br /><br />what startled me about this film was its juvenile promotion of stereotypes. they introduced a russian character for the sole purpose of mocking him and making fun of the way he talked. he was portrayed as being wild, ignorant and amazingly shallow. they were just getting warmed up though for the usual nonsense about gays. gina decides to be gay for a while since she isn't having any luck with guys. honestly. that wasn't that bad except they really went overboard when gina brought a lesbian to a christmas party her friends were throwing. her lesbian date had very short hair (like i'm sure all lesbians do). she also got quite upset (like i'm sure all lesbians do) when gina had the nerve to put on lipstick(!). finally, her date goes around the party hitting on just about every woman there and mouths off when gina expresses her disappointment. of course, we all know how gay people can't stay faithful for so much as a couple of hours much less months or even years, right? (please note the sarcasm in that statement. thank you.)<br /><br />this film was based on a tired and predictable premise to begin with but cryer's unlikable performance combined with the idiotic stereotyping sinks this movie to the lower depths of cinema. 2/10