before i begin, you need to know that i am a huge fan of many of sonny chiba's films. his biographical series of the life of his master, mas oyama, were amazing and among the best martial arts films ever made, as were most of his street fighter films. the action was practically non-stop and with the possible exception of bruce lee (depending on who you ask), he was the greatest martial arts practitioner on film during the 1970s. because they are so good, i've seen at least 15 of his films and recently bought some more (which i am in the process of watching).<br /><br />unfortunately, despite my love of these films, i am not a mind-numbed zombie who worships the man to such a degree that i rate every film a 10. there are a few reviews like this here on imdb and i truly think that anyone giving this film a 10 should be ignored because this is such a bad film from a technical standpoint and isn't even close to the being chiba's best work. a score of 10 isn't a real rating--it's some zombie fan trying to make a statement about chiba, not this film! as i said, technically this film is awful. some of this was the result of my seeing the american dubbed version, with its irrelevant prologue and bad dubbing. but most of the problem would still exist with the original japanese print. the camera-work is simply atrocious--like it was done by chimps (smart chimps, but still chimps nonetheless). often, much of the fast martial arts action is missed because the camera is so slow or the tops of the actors heads are clipped off due to the shoddiness of production. and, again and again, the camera pans in and out like it is a new toy being used by an idiot plus the editing is beyond wretched--with cuts being done haphazardly and confusingly.<br /><br />i don't know whether the musical score is original or not--but it was also very, very bad. sort of like acid rock of 1970 blended poorly with ennio morricone's "spaghetti western" music--it was annoying, distracting and just plain silly.<br /><br />as for the martial arts action, i think that having chimps do the choreography would have improved things a bit. instead of the great fight scenes you'd look forward to in a chiba film, the fights are too brief and often missed by the camera!! so what you are left with is the story...and this might just be the worst part of the film! it's supposed to be an anti-drug film starring sonny chiba as....sonny chiba! and when the film begins, he vows to destroy the drug trade in japan. but, the mafia (complete with not a single member who looks italian, but who are all japanese) vows to stop chiba. and, when a lady comes to chiba with promises to give him information about how to destroy the drug trade, he agrees to help her and risk his life with no conditions--even though she's never forthright about telling him what she knows! in fact, later it turns out she is just trying to use chiba to protect her while she herself sells a huge briefcase full of cocaine--and he continues trying to protect her!! this makes no sense at all and throughout much of the film it looks as if they just shot the film without a script--such as when they went into the bars and brothels and had chiba walking about as if he was drunk.<br /><br />so if it was that bad, why still does it merit a 3? well, first, there are many more horrid marital arts films (such as many of those from hong kong in the 1970s)--including one with guys dressed up in gorilla suits doing kung fu and their handlers with 3 foot long tongues they used for fighting (now that's bad). second, while the action is very bad compared to other sonny chiba films, compared to its contemporaries, it's not that bad. still, you could easily do a lot better than this horrid little film.<br /><br />by the way, if you are wondering if this is the worst sonny chiba film, it certainly is not! in one of his first films, invasion of the neptune men, chiba plays a leotard-wearing super-hero who battles pointy-headed invaders from the planet neptune. it's so bad that it rivals plan 9 from outer space and they saved hitler's brain for awfulness.<br /><br />a final note to parents--like most of sonny chiba's films, this one is very violent and has its share of boobies. don't let little kids watch this no matter how much they beg! make them wait until they are older before you let them watch wretched rated-r martial arts films!