the best thing you can say about this movie is that if you are a fan of sonny chiba, this movie gives you lots of him. chiba makes speeches; chiba poses; chiba sneers; chiba glares at the camera; chiba punches and kicks the living sushi out of a whole bunch of bad guys; chiba sits around on couches and chairs and looks thoughtful/pensive; chiba drives his car...<br /><br />i enjoy chiba as an actor and a martial artist...but even for a chiba fan, this movie may have a little too much sonny chiba. it's obviously something of a vanity vehicle for him. and no, i wouldn't put "street fighter" in the same category, because in "sf" he plays a ruthless, amoral anti-hero and he shares the camera with an intriguing cast of friends and foes. here, he's front and center almost all the time, and he tries to be batman, captain america and bruce lee rolled into one. toshiro mifune and chow yun fat couldn't pull this off for the length of an entire feature film, and sonny just kind of wears out his welcome. at least he could have changed out of his suit once in a while.<br /><br />the movie is further messed up by an entirely gratuitous and badly done introductory sequence (apparently tacked on to the front of the film for the american version) and a goofy cheer "("viva!! chiba!! viva!! chiba!!) that starts things on the wrong foot. there is some astoundingly amateurish and inappropriate dubbing - sonny (or his usual english stand-in) apparently couldn't be bothered to do the vocals for the american version, so they got some poor dope with an entirely different and smoother voice and dialect that is quite jarring coming from the face we all know and love from "street fighter". <br /><br />even with all those flaws and the overexposure, this could still be a minor classic, but the camera work and the fight scenes are hopelessly cheesy. i'm willing to believe that karate actually works if someone as amazing as chiba's character is supposed to be does it, but the director and cameraman hedged their bets by chopping and editing fight scenes with a weed whacker so you can't really see what's going on most of the time. it's not all bad: there are some decent shots and compositions, and there's at least one memorable and nightmarish moment when the bad guys appear in the client's bedroom in a genuinely inventive way. <br /><br />and as for the actual plot...forget it. for a "bodyguard", chiba's character is something of an idiot. the screenplay depends on his making mistakes and oversights that repeatedly place him (and his "client") in perilous situations so he can fight his way out of them, and after 30 minutes, it strains even the most credulous judgment to think that this guy is supposed to be any good. (also, if his character was really out to destroy the japanese drug trade, he'd have taken his client by her neck 10 minutes into the screenplay and shaken her until her teeth chattered like a castanet until she spilled her little secrets...and a whole lot of pointless death and conflict would have been avoided.) <br /><br />still, as a whole this movie is a long way from the bottom of the barrel. it's still sonny chiba, and he's still fun to watch. i paid a buck to get this off the bargain dvd rack at a local mega mart, and i feel it was worth watching once.