this is easily one of the worst martial arts films i've ever seen, and that's saying something. the chant of viva chiba, viva chiba is heard at the title, soon you will be chanting to yourself stupid, stupid. the basic story is that the mafia is running drugs into japan and one man vowels to stop them, of course that's our man sonny chiba. the karate master offers up his service to anyone who can provide information on the drug lords. a woman comes forward and he becomes the bodyguard, but what are her true intentions? let me say at this point who cares? soon we are treated to or tortured by a series of poorly choreographed fights and a lame storyline that becomes more and more laughable at every moment. sonny eventually wipes out the bad guys with his karate skills, end of story. oh yeah the woman was corrupt too. congratulations you may have just watched the funniest film ever.<br /><br />as stated already this is one of the worst martial arts films i have ever seen. what makes it semi watchable is to see how badly made a film can be. some have already mentioned the infamous american intro put into the film. that's probably the most entertaining part of the film and it's beyond funny. i would agree its worth watching just to see how lame the 70's karate scene was at the time. watch as aaron banks leaves a guy hanging by his nuts then flips a fat student (bad editing) punching him in the throat. but everything is badly done in this film. terrible unbelievable fights, fake i mean fake blood, bad acting, dubbing, wardrobe, and let's not forget the story. one man to take out an entire drug problem in a country? i bet. fight after fight is laughable. this was the 70's when people still believed karate was effective in a fight, but chiba brings it to new levels with some of the nonsense put out in this movie. let's see he kicks a gun in half, kicks a guy so hard what looks like his dentures fall out and of course chopping the bottle scene, give me a break. not to mention the fact that it's very hard to tell what happens in the fights because it's filmed so poorly. one part that was amusing was when he broke the guys arm through the door giving him a compound fracture. ok. as the action goes on we are treated to gobs of blood, really fake blood. too say it looked poorly made is and understatement. the acting is totally non existent in this film. i don't expect much from a film of this caliber anyway as long as the action is good, but it wasn't and as expected the dubbing is extremely poor. was it my imagination or did they dub the asian go go dancer with a black accent? as expected from a 70's wardrobe you'll be in stitches laughing at some of the trends and nasty women put forth for the gratuitous nudity that comes with these flicks. also why would the mafia be so obvious and all where black trench coats and hats all the time? don't try and hide it now. the characters were stupid as well. the pimp club owner's one of whom is decked out in a japanese pimp suit and the other who has a taste for bores head looks like fat hippie. also one last thing that bothered me throughout the film was the awful music with some woman whaling. it was very annoying.<br /><br />overall this is a terrible film by both martial arts standards and good movie making. that doesn't mean that it's not entertaining. with a film made so poorly it's hard not to laugh through most of this film, if you can stomach it. this was an old favorite watch with my best friend. if it was purely bad i would give one star, but the laughs it delivers bumps it up. 4 out 10.