lil bush is a 30 minute cartoon show comprised of 2 15 minutes episodes shown on comedy central. it takes place in a fictional, cartoonish washington d.c., and centers around the satirical, childish representations of george w. bush, condoleeza rice, donald rumsfeld and dick cheyney. other politicians are also satirized in the same manner, and act as minor characters.<br /><br />the pilot of little bush, much to this commentator's expectations, proved to be a rather shallow and esoteric production, which barely delivers on its featured promise: a satirical look at the current presidential administration. while one must admit that premise of the show does have some merit, even though it would be hard to imagine a show based almost completely of the denigration of a single political persona would survive to continue to produce episodes after his term of office expired, execution that can only be described as sloppy at best, and downright awful at worst, has marred what little potential the show had.<br /><br />lil bush, which may be technically classified as "satire", tends to disregard its actual use of the particular tool of comedy in order to lambaste its targets in exceptionally vulgar (but not particularly original, entertaining, or funny) ways. the show's consistently weak writing often consists of little more than recording bush/cheney jokes heard elsewhere ad nauseam and placing them all in a single 30 minute block of television. as such, most of the jokes that presented by the writers were shameless clich'es, some of which that been in public circulation for more than 6 years already. comparing the vice president to darth vader, for example, may have been funny in the first 300 times one has heard it on the daily show/colbert report/letterman/conan o'brien/leno monologue/any late-night-talk-show-ever, but it is not funny here. as if that were not enough, the show's plots seem to exist simply as a means to advance the same old, tiresome bush jokes that the writers have made the center of the program.<br /><br />in the show's defense, when the writers dare to write in a truly original joke (which seems to be a rarity) it is often somewhat humorous. if the show were to expand its depth somewhat, and place its characters into new situations, exotic situations, rather than the same old mistakes and "quagmires" perpetuated by the bush administration, therefore not having to rely on the same old bush jokes over and over again, the show might be considered somewhat tolerable, and possibly even innovative.<br /><br />ultimately, it is difficult to ascertain which shortcoming causes the lil bush series the most damage; its clear lack of originality and weak writing quality, or its painfully narrow minded ambitions. it is reasonable to expect that lil bush will be able to maintain a small base of left wing fans, that is, if they are able to endure the exceptionally poor writing; so long as the program continues to lampoon the bush administration thoroughly. even so, the majority of viewers will soon recognize the program for what it really is, a weak and pointlessly vulgar attempt at satire, and tune out in search of something more intellectually stimulation; the price is right, perhaps.