carnosaur 3 is bad... awfully bad. bad to the point where it is funny. how matter how much i try to convince myself, i just can't believe anyone in this world could find this entertaining for serious reasons. i mean, come on, even the cover is bad! ok, the special effects are absolutely ridiculous. those "carnosaurs" are really ridiculous. a scientist tells the soldiers that they move incredibly fast, yet when you see them run, they run at the speed of... an actor in a rubber suit trying to run as much as he can. and the explosions are funny(there is no other word to describe it). at the beginning, a bullet hits a jeep after a guys says "what was that?"... and the other explosions are also laughable. but the worst thing is the screenplay and the so-called story. you don't expect a good story(or, i don't think anyone renting this movie expects a good movie) but at least the story has to try to make sense. i mean, how hard is it to make a story about dinosaurs killing people at least coherent. incredibly hard if you look at this. oh, and if you think that it's easy to makes believable commandos as your characters, tell it to the writers of this awful, awful piece of crap. i mean, what sick human being would make cheap jokes after one of his buddies is dead? and they do lots of it. and if you think that a movie about dinosaurs killing soldiers can only be at least action-packed, wake up!!! this movie is incredibly dull. the carnosaurs(who invented this lame name anyway?) attack(in boring action sequences where you don't see much happening). the soldiers think of how to beat them(in incredibly funny scenes where they try real hard to be serious but can't seem to convince even just one second). so, then, they attack the carnosaurs, but their idea doesn't work(another laughable action sequence). back to planning(with a few lame jokes thrown in) in another ridiculous scene. and this goes on, and on, and on. and let's not forget the acting which is about as convincing as the special effects... and the story... oh ok, this movie simply sucks from a to z.<br /><br />