i really do fail to see the actual surplus value of this movie. it's not bad enough to be hilarious. there's no sleaze or gratuitous nudity (although there was plenty of opportunity). there's no gore. there's no suspense in the first hour of the movie 'cause there's way to much scenes of tourist having a party and natives playing funky tribal music. that last part was actually funny on many occasions: you see these natives hitting congas and 'jemb'es' and that's indeed what you hear (badly synchronized) on the soundtrack. but they also added this funky bass-line on the soundtrack. so, where was the bass-player? at one point the natives get angry and start killing the tourists. why all of the sudden? it's supposed to be because the evil white men build this tourist complex, which according to their myth awakened the wrath of the river-alligator-god (i actually missed the explanation for that one). but the natives did help for several months to build the tourist complex, so why the sudden angriness? and how in the hell did they manage to push the helicopter in the water??? it's all silly and pointless. this movie also features the skinniest afro-american model i've ever seen.<br /><br />at one point our heroic leading couple visits this cave where a weird, crazy old man lives. the only point to that scene is that they make the "shocking" discovery that the killer-crocodile is actually an alligator. crocodile or alligator, what's the difference? it's big, it's made out of plastic and it eats people. all the same to me. the alligator is a rather silly creation. it's very stiff & motionless and doesn't even flap its feet when it swims. the eyes don't even move when they're shot in close-up. i guess they didn't know 'animatronics' back then in italy during 1979. there's also a lot of pointless inter-cut shots of the local wildlife. i suspect it's stock footage.<br /><br />like, i said, the first hour was pretty lame and the only reason i didn't switch off the movie was because my cat was asleep on my lap and i didn't want to wake the sweet thing. but the last half hour of the movie did get better. we finally get to see some action when the alligator swims through a horde of panicking people snapping its teeth and munching on them. the most entertaining (and at the same time funny) scene is when alice and daniel drive a van over a bridge and it collapses. we're looking at a matchbox-version of the van falling in the river here. funny. but nicely shot. in fact there are several other nice traveling camera-moves. surprisingly for this type of flick. i was gonna point out some stupid details concerning the end of the movie, but i don't wanna spoil it completely, in case you do decide to watch this movie. my advice is to stay away from it. if you wanna see a decent alligator movie, then see lewis teague's alligator. i admit, that one isn't italian and isn't a jaws rip-off, but it certainly is more fun. and if you're interested in other movies made by director sergio martino, then i strongly recommend the highly entertaining 2019: after the fall of new york. that one's an over-the-top rip-off of every possible existing post-apocalyptic-future-of-doom-movie. "italians" and "rip-offs", two words that go together very well.