antitrust falls right into that category of films that aspire to make some great point while being uplifting yet falls completely flat. i don't hate the film, but it is missing key elements, such as suspense. there have been other attempts to make an engaging film about computers, such as hackers and the net. they all fall short. the improbable ending of both the net and antirust seem to be nearly identical. these movie endings suffer from one huge error in perception: people in the pc business having this over-indulgent self ego that assumes the general population lives it's life waiting to hear the latest news about pc's and software. i have worked for many companies and industries, and they all seem to suffer from an expanded view of their own self-importance, as does this film.<br /><br />the way they introduced plot lines was pathetic. showing milo, who is deathly allergic to sesame seeds, almost ingest one from a restaurant breadbasket crossed the line of stupidity. only his 'girlfriend' prevented him from sure death. this makes one wonder how milo could have survived as long as he did, braving the perils of big mac buns and sesame seed breadsticks, as they cloak themselves as, well.... sesame seed breadsticks and big mac buns.<br /><br />antitrust also doesn't provide much suspense. the patterned and predictable plot twists are easily figured out long before they are revealed (come on, was anyone really stunned when yee jee tso was killed?), thereby destroying any real shock value. and here again we have yet another film/story where at the end, the bad guys are chasing the good guys to 'get the disk'. we need to have a moratorium on this simple simon plot line for about 20 years. still, i pressed on. maybe the ending would be the payoff, but no. the completely ridiculous ending where we have the head of company security, another supposed evil guy, turn around and be the good guy that enables milo to bring down n.u.r.v ceo gary winston was laughable. and of course, the news coverage of the arrest of gary winston is more fevered than when hinckley or oswald was brought into custody. gary winston, played by tim robbins, is a cardboard cutout of the same character robbins played in arlington road. but that fits perfectly here in antitrust, which should be called 'anticlimactic' or 'anti-original'.<br /><br />in the years to come, this film will likely be banished, to be shown only on your local third rate uhf channel.