i saw the trailer for this film a few months prior to its release, and man, did it look scary, especially how this film was based on a real life phenomenon. i was incredibly interested, and thought that this could finally be a decent horror/thriller film after years if crap. well you know how movie trailers make a film look better than it is: maybe by showing all of the creepy parts or by overdramaticizing certain elements. the advertisements for the movie did both, which lead to my ultimate disappointment.<br /><br />by no means is this "the most disturbing movie in years". hell, i doubt it was the most disturbing movie of that week's release. this movie takes the whole "based off of fact" thing too far.<br /><br />this movie wasn't complete crap. i must admit, it held my interest and micheal keaton was believable as a man searching for answers by supernatural means. other than that, though, this film is one big clich'e. after john's wife dies, he learns about evp, which transmits the voices of the dead into everyday electronic appliances. he all of the sudden receives messages from his wife! my god! it's not just his wife reaching him, it's other dead people. gee, imagine that. a movie about helping dead people. come on, give me a break! the clich'es don't stop there. there's also the obligatory clock-stopping-at-the-same-exact-time-every-night trick and three evil spirits that menace our hero. not only was the movie clich'e, it wasn't scary. the film literally had two jump scenes, and those two scenes are almost identical. the ending is horrible, as it leaves the door wide open for a sequel. there's also an ending message with a message saying how only 1 out of x voices heard through evp are threatening, with a nice happy tune playing. way to break the mood, you guys. jeez! in the end, if you want another forgettable horror film, see white noise. the only reasons i could possibly think anyone would watch this film for is that either that the person is a keaton fan or that they are interested in evp. sure, the evp aspects may be slightly interesting, but i don't like my movie concepts to be shoved down my throat and blown up in my face. this film tries to be scary, original, and disturbing, but it's just the opposite. you know you have a lame movie when the commercials use the ghosts to talk about there film. "i will see this film no more."