john rivers' life as an architect and family man has taken a turn for the worst when his wife has disappeared and has been concluded dead after a freakish accident that involved changing a tyre on her car. during the days she has been missing, he confronts a man that's been following and he tells him that his been in contact with his dead wife from the other-side through e.v.p - electronic voice phenomenon. naturally he doesn't believe it but then hear gets weird phone calls from her phone and so he contacts the man to find out more about e.v.p. soon enough john is hooked onto it, but something supernatural doesn't like him interfering with the dead, as now other then contacting his wife, the white noise is foretelling events before they happen.<br /><br />since this dvd has been sitting on my shelf for a while now, i thought i better get around to watching it since it wasn't my copy. but then again i don't think the owners were in a hurry to get it back, as they haven't question me about it. oh well. so i decided to give it a play, as i was in an undemanding mood. after hearing and reading all the bad press on it, i wasn't expecting anything remotely good, but i was kept entertained for 90 minutes. well, more so the 60 minutes, as the last half-an-hour was pretty much a blur of confusion. the film is nowhere as good as it could have been, but the time breezed by quick enough even though it's a rather tepid supernatural thriller. i thought it wasn't all a waste. the first hour i found some effective sequences rather interesting and there's a spooky awe generated with a slow progression of subtle stillness and tragedy that haunts you, but sadly that comes to a crashing halt later on in the film. that's when the predictably forced jump scares come into their own and somehow it just doesn't fit in with the context. it becomes rather hectic, loud and very muddled with its mtv style editing and kinetic camera-work that gets to close into the action. i couldn't understand what was going on within choppy and abrupt climax. the whole explanation how everything fits into the bigger picture is pure hokey. it's a very unsatisfying conclusion because it goes for something big, but hits rock bottom. i thought they did fine job up until that point with the lighting and showy camera-work. other then the distinctively stark lighting, the score kept this flick atmospherically gloomy. all of it is very slickly done with its glossed up and fancy hardware, which makes it come across as very sterile and empty.<br /><br />you can easily see that the film's heart is in the technical components and not in expanding the characters and story. there's just no connection and lasting sentiment within this flimsy material. after a while, it just tries too hard to convince you that it falls into manipulative thrills and popping in many blood-curdling stuff from beyond the grave. it just got rather repetitious watching someone watch a fuzzy tv screen after while. the e.v.p machine was the star on the show. well, it did have more impact than the limp performances. michael keaton is more than capable actor, but lately his disappeared off the map and here he provides a modest performance as the dangerously obsessed john rivers. he really deserves much better, though. everyone else is pretty brittle and forgettable. not because of the performances, but of the lack of depth in their characters. this clunker wasn't bad to begin with, but it does go pear shape by falling away drastically.<br /><br />i wouldn't care to see it again and i wouldn't recommend to anyone, unless you got a interest for the subject matter and enjoy the recent crop of hollywood produced horror/thrillers. it's just a damn shame that this over-produced flick couldn't put it together successfully, as it had promise in its idea and a more than decent cast on hand. i didn't hate it, but what a disappointment.