absolutely one of the worst movies of the year. the plot is ridiculous, the characters poorly developed, and the premise irritatingly stupid. it all begins when michael keaton, fresh off of doing nothing noteworthy since batman, loses his beautiful author wife, anna, to a car accident, possibly caused by her driving one of those convertible vw bugs even though she's supposed to be rich. in his grief, batman moves to a new apartment and takes up a hobby: recording nothing and then watching it. he learned this from a really fat pathetic guy who got murdered by three tall shadowy fellows who lived in his tv. pretty soon, he starts to see dead people, thanks to evp, or electronic voice phenomenon, which is evidently this deal wherein dead people can send messages to living people through tape recorders, video cameras, dead cell phones ("anna cell calling? but she's...dead!...must be ghosts. mhmmm. no other possible explanation. i'd better start messing around with this indiscriminately.") etc. why they can't just write something down on a piece of paper or knock over some stuff to form creative pictograms is never explained. anyway, eventually batman discovers that he's actually seeing the future, and he decides to go help this woman he doesn't know. he gets out of his house just in the nick of time, because the tall dark guys enter just after he leaves ("d*mn it! can travel between the living and dead using electronics, but i'll be d*mned if we can be on time! am i right guys? (they nod in bemused agreement)."). he tracks this lady to a warehouse and finds out that this character from the first ten minutes of the movie (look hard, or you'll miss him!) is actually a serial killer working for three tall shadowy demons, who in raiders of the lost ark style swoop down and kill him, looking like the cartoons that they are. just then some detectives show up and save the lady. after batman's funeral, he decides to send a message from beyond the grave apologizing to his son for being an idiot, evidently feeling that the best way to protect his kid from the horrors of evp is to expose him to it. the little kid just smiles. nothing phases that dude, not even when his dad, batman of course, starts talking to tv's. the high-point of the movie was when someone's phone rang and some guy yelled out, "it's anna!"