the howling ii starts as it means to go on with a bizarre and surreal opening narration by christopher lee whose image is imposed over a moving star field, oh and a skeleton appears as well for some reason. he says "for it's written the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with her blood. and i saw her sip upon a hairy beast and she held forth a golden challis full of the filthiest fornication's and upon her forehead was written, behold i am the great mother of #an inaudible word i couldn't make out no matter how many times i rewound the tape and tried to, sorry# and all abominations of the earth". this opening narration means nothing at all and is just downright bizarre. after the opening credits which are set over shots of transylvanian architecture we get an on screen caption that informs us we're in 'los angeles, california u.s.a. city of the angels'. i knew i was in for a long 86 minutes. it's probably not too long after the events of the original howling (1981) and it's karen white's funeral. after the ceremony karen's brother ben (reb brown) is spoken to by an 'occult investigator' called stefan crosscoe (christopher lee) who says that karen is a werewolf and that she will come back to life. ben dismisses such nonsense. but together with one of karen's friends and colleagues jenny (annie mcenroe) he visits stefan at his home. there stefan tells them about werewolves and how they can be killed, he mentions stirba (sybil danning) who is the queen of werewolves. stefan also shows them a photograph taken at karen's funeral of a woman named mariana (marsha a. hunt) and that she is an extremely vicious and dangerous werewolf who wants karen. stefan says he will stake any werewoves through the heart with titanium. ben figures out that stefan means he will stake karen as well so together with jenny he travels to the graveyard where his sister's crypt is to stop stefan. however lots of werewolves turn up and attack stefan, ben and jenny. they survive the attack and manage to find out that stirba is to be found in transylvania. they all decide to travel to transylvania and stop stirba and her werewolves from taking over the earth by fulfilling a centuries old curse. once there they travel to a small town called vlkava which means 'where wolves live' and meet up with the local priest, father florin (ladislav krecmer) and his small but loyal group of werewolf hunters, hey what else can i call them? oh, and a dwarf named florica (ludmila safarova) helps too. they follow mariana who they hope will lead them to stirba. but stirba knows of stefan's arrival and has plans for him ben and jenny. will stefan be able to put an end to stirba's plans for world domination? will this film get any more bizarre or surreal? watch it and find out. directed by philippe mora this is one strange mess of a film. it's poorly edited as certain sequences just jump around incoherently. the single biggest problem is the script by robert sano and gary brandner based on his novel which is all over the place and doesn't make any sort of sense or introduces us to any proper characters that we like. luckily it moves along like a rocket and is never dull or boring, unlike the original. something strange or bizarre is always happening to keep the viewer entertained. most people will probably hate it, but for those of us who enjoy 'bad' films this is right up there with the best of them. there are werewolf orgies which are just freaky to watch. we get some cool werewolf killing weaponry. the sets and locations just seem so out of place and i don't know if this was actually shot in transylvania but it doesn't look like what i thought mid 80's transylvania would. stirba's castle is part dungeon, part gothic castle and part modern luxury house. stirba and her servant's costumes are very over-the-top, stirba wears an outfit that looks like it belongs in a s/m video and to be fair to her she looks pretty sexy, and her minions wear skimpy leather clothing too. the special make-up effects range from good to poor, a dwarf's eyes explode, someone has their hand ripped off and a priest has some creature emerge from his mouth but this isn't a film loaded with gore, although there are plenty of effect sequences with werewolf transformations and attacks. there is plenty of nudity as well as stirba and her minions are a real randy bunch of werewolves! i should also mention the music, the soundtrack is dominated by awful rock music that i hated and i ended up turning the volume down. acting is weak all round and what on earth was christopher lee thinking about when he accepted this film?! i wonder what he thinks of it. basically the whole thing is a real mess, but i found it a fairly entertaining mess all the same. impossible to recommend but it kept me watching through to the end. speaking of which the end credits run over what appears to be deleted scenes and cut footage, it also features the same shot of sybil danning taking her dress off and exposing her breasts probably in excess of 20 times! if that's your thing.