i'll have to add dissenting comment here. various reviews i have read compared this movie to the likes of those by wong kar wai or hou hsiao-hsien. i.e. one of the admirable flotilla of mandarin goodies that have come our way in recent years. unfortunately this isn't quite accurate. the film plays out rather like a film school graduate's attempt to emulate these masters. all the pieces are there - the beautiful backdrop, the vaguely minimalist dialogue, the slow swaying camerawork, and male leads, in particular, who spend a fair whack of time sitting around being contemplative. sounds good but unfortunately nothing is up to par. the dialogue is leaden. the acting is generally unable to lift the characters above type; the married couple and the little sister are particularly poor and uninvolving. unfortunately when mediocre character acting is combined with a classical "chekovian" (i.e. very predictable) plot, the results are at best tedious and at worst painful. i couldn't help but see the "blue danube" river scene, for example, as verging on genre parody (although the smoggy looking "springtime" sky over the river did provide a bit of black humour...) i actually went to this movie on the basis that mark li ping was photographing it. while the setting is elegant, and the swaying camera attempts to replicate the mood of "flowers of shanghai", the film is not in the same league, visually. in fact i must confess that after an hour of wondering whether it was the script or the acting that was ruining the film, i suddenly remembered that i was meant to meet my flatmate for dinner and took the chance to leave (and i can't recall the last film i walked out of). i'm guessing from the reviews that the ending may have left a positive aftertaste but by that point i couldn't care. if you'd like to see something along similar lines done with real talent then i'd recommend anything by the above two directors, for example "in the mood for love" or "flowers of shanghai", both of which were filmed by the talented mr ping (the former with chris doyle), and both of which are films masterful enough to inspire years of failed emulations like this. it's not often mr hoberman leads me astray, and perhaps you'd rather listen to him, but don't say you weren't warned. craig.<br /><br />