this is the first of "the complete dramatic works of william shakespeare" bbc series i've seen, and if all of them are like this, i might watch no more. being practically the full text of the play is everything this "romeo & juliet" has going for it, lacking in all other departments. alvin rakoff reveals himself as a dreadful director, both in the technical and artistic aspects. in the former, because he commits mistakes that even a first grade film student would wisely avoid. take in consideration, for example, the badly edited first shot of abraham and balthasar in the opening scene, or the nurse's entering of friar lawrence's cell, asking where's romeo with him being so very in front of her that she'd clearly see him even if she was blind. and, in the latter, because every single one of the performers is misdirected, even if some of them are good actors. rebecca saire looks exactly the way i've always imagined juliet to look like, and she doesn't seem to be a bad actress for a teenager, but her performance totally lacks passion of any kind. patrick ryecart as romeo is even worse, being not only as dull as juliet, but also way too old and not even good-looking, coming across as a combination of malcolm mcdowell and the chucky doll. putting them together makes impossible to think they feel anything for each other, let alone being the main players of the greatest love story ever written. alan rickman, in his screen debut, plays tybalt like if he was darth vader, which is a huge mistake that takes away the complexity that shakespeare intended, no character being a hero or a villain but all flawed human beings. this tybalt is so mean-looking that we don't believe the characters' pity after his demise. as for paris, i kept thinking of "prince valium" from spaceballs. only celia johnson manages to do the character of the nurse some justice.<br /><br />at 168 minutes, this production is unable to make us empathize with the characters, because the characters don't empathize with each other and never seen to believe their own roles. the best screen version is still franco zeffirelli's. but, to be fair, this bbc one isn't nearly as bad as abominations like george cukor's flamboyant geriatric version, or the crime against humanity that is baz luhrmann's feature-length mtv video. 4/10.