superficically, "brigadoon" is a very promising entertainment package. gene kelly and vincente minnelli, the team behind "an american in paris", are reunited with a lot of the great craftsmen and women behind their previous collaborations. gene's leading lady is cyd charisse, one of the best dancers of 40s/50s cinema, and unlike the generally superior "it's always fair weather" this film gave them the chance for not only one but two dances. lerner and loewe were the rising team behind such future hits as "my fair lady" and minnelli's musical masterpiece "gigi"; lerner and minnelli had already demonstrated their sanguine collaborative juices on the excellent "american in paris."<br /><br />what happened along the way? why is the movie itself such a stupid bore? minnelli himself didn't want to do the movie, despite his previous warm artistic and personal relationship with lerner. maybe it was because the movie's innate conservatism was just a bit too much of two steps forward for mgm and one step backward for vincente minnelli. but once trapped in this assignment like the denizens of brigadoon are trapped within its city limits, minnelli strove to turn it into something that would be entertaining in a specifically distracting, if not liberating way. the ultimate result is truly horrific to behold.<br /><br />while aiming for the naive charm of previous minnelli hits like "cabin in the sky" and "meet me in st. louis", the plaid-tights wearing inhabitants of brigadoon can conjure up none of the illusive nostalgia of those never-have-been locales. its whimsy doesn't even match up to the glossy luster of "yolanda and the thief" or "the pirate" because the highlands settings seem at the same time too specific for such an exotic fantasy and too generic for real human emotions. the only people in brigadoon who i at least can relate to are the malcontented man who tries to escape and the unfortunate fellow-traveler played by van johnson who accidentally shoots him. the general proceedings in the township of brigadoon itself are too arcane and provincial even to be attributed to a backwards form of christianity: they seem positively pagan in their aspect. for example, in exchange for brigadoon's immortality, the honorable and most generally "good" pastor of the town has sacrificed his own place in the supposedly blessed refuge.<br /><br />at one point we're assured that "everybody's looking for their own brigadoon." suffice it to say the box office for this picture confirms my own suspicion that most of us aren't looking for this kind of quasi-queasy paradise. the premise itself is ridiculous and almost insultingly patronizing, but could work if the players were perfect. but kelly himself is the most patronizing thing about the movie, and charisse is horribly miscast as a virginal optimist in much the same way as lucille bremer was miscast in "yolanda and the thief." van johnson does his best version of the classic oscar levant sidekick to kelly (even lighting 3 cigarettes at one point like levant in "aip"), and he provides a lot of amusing moments. but it says something in itself if the best part of a big budget extravaganza with all the best talents of mgm is a tossed-off van johnson performance.