it's not often i feel compelled to give negative criticism of a film; after all i often feel the maxim, "if you don't have anything good to say don't say it at all," would be apt advice for the many naysayers we listen to everyday who nitpick at things we like. if it's all the same to you the reader though i feel compelled to point out that with the lone exception of christopher walken in a returning role as gabriel this movie is pathetically horrid. i say this to you to warn you in advance that even if you are a fan of walken's deadpan delivery and style or liked the original "prophecy" that you will be sorely dissapointed. if you buy it, return it. if you rent it, make sure it's only ninety-nine cents.<br /><br />what's wrong with this movie? a full list would take too long to read and would bore you to tears, but a short summary would be the following: the once rather crystalline clear picture of the relationship between angels and mortals of the first film is ripped to shreds. gabriel is turned from the rather morbid right hand of god he once was (and in this role he is wickedly funny in the first) to little more than a thug for heaven. since walken is so good at playing heavies (we all remember frank white from "king of new york") he is still enjoyable but the supporting cast is an unmitigated and unconvincing mess of mortals and angels alike who couldn't buy a clue for 50 cents. if you can figure out the plot you're a smarter man than i. one gets the feeling we wander aimlessly from scene to scene just to move the film along to walken's next big line. by the end of the movie you're actually wishing he'd blow his horn and make the walls of jericho fall on the people who made this un-natural disaster.<br /><br />bottom line - it's an insult to our intelligence that they made a sequel to this film in the first place. the original told the right story, answered the questions that should have been, and left alone the ones you were meant to ponder afterwards. there are no compelling reasons to follow these characters that was in the first - the priest who lost his faith, the little girl who kept the "big secret", the teacher who protected her children - even lucifer himself was more interesting by himself in the first film than all the other characters in the sequel put together. i feel sorry for anybody who sees this film and not the first because they'll probably never want to watch the original and that's a real tragedy.