i bought a set of 4 dvds for 10 bucks at my local suncoast, which contained this movie and three other trashy horror flicks (including its sequel "witchcraft xi"). so basically i paid the rock bottom price of $2.50 for this movie, if you do the math. i can't exactly say i was ripped off. i have a thing for trashy horror movies, but this is the kind of trash that gives trash a bad name. the budget couldn't be over $1,000 (though it appears as if they spent a total of $1.50). i know it's a low-budget film, but that's no excuse for totally uninspired camerawork. the film "blood cult," though not very good, was made for an extremely low budget and still had fairly good camerawork and acting. the acting in this movie is the definition of "effortless," especially from that muscular guy with the texas accent. everyone is pretty much reading their lines off the page. you can take that figuratively or literally. i wouldn't be surprised if the script was off-camera as they were performing. i said before that i've never seen a bad english actor. this movie has quite a few bad ones. and though english movies aren't always good, they always seem to have at least a level of sophistication, which is why i don't see why any englishman, or englishwoman, would volunteer to do a home-video-style schlock flick like this. did merchant ivory put a hold on their casting calls? usually, i think people are too hard on directors and actors. even some of the worst movies in hollywood have some level of professionalism in the directing, acting and cinematography departments. even when you watch a movie like "glitter" you can't honestly say it looks like a third-grader shot those scenes (though a third-grader could've written the script). i've seen home movies that are shot better than "witchcraft x," and that's no exaggeration whatsoever. even the gore is minimal since the filmmakers only had money to buy some fake blood on sale at party city. not a single effort was put into making this movie--let's just sum it up like that. you get the picture. there's a good deal of nudity, though that doesn't save it. however, i must say that girl with the red-orange hair, who's either naked or wearing a cleavage-popping outfit throughout the film, is really hot! <br /><br />my score: 1 (out of 10)