on the 1998 summer blockbuster hit baseketball (1998): "this is one of those movies that is usually seen on the big jumbo-tron screen in a sports bar during the day - when everyone is quite drunk. unfortunately, i was sober when i saw this movie."<br /><br />so quoted the late gene siskel for this lame-brained, supposed yukfest that came out two weeks after the far superior "there's something about mary" in a one-upmanship game during july of 1998. "mary" was a gross-out fest, but in addition to the many gags, it had a lot of heart, which is why it was the highest grossing comedy of that memorable summer.<br /><br />"baseketball" tried to outdo mary, but it fizzled in more ways that one. you take the creators of "south park," trey parker and matt stone, who are fortunately not behind the movie but in front of the camera, the only member of zaz david zucker helming the picture in desperate need of a paycheck, and the other two jim abrahams and jerry zucker clearly stayed out or probably warned him against the picture, a small bit by now 90 years young ernest borgnine, wasting his precious time in his distinguished career, dying on a hotdog and singing "i'm too sexy" as he videotapes his will, jenny mccarthy, who has little screen time as borgnine's not-too-weeping trophy widow young enough to be his granddaughter, a bigger female part by yasmine bleeth as a dedicated social worker whose charges are underprivileged youngsters, and the only interesting and meaningful player in this turkey, robert vaughn as a corrupt archrival, and pointless cameos by "airplane!" alumni kareem abdul jabaar and the late robert stack who seemed nostalgic for the 1980 masterpiece and it's much fresher humor created by the zaz family. what do all these people make up? a desperate cast and crew trying to replicate "airplane!" humor and mixing it up with the crudity of "south park," but failing in every way.<br /><br />to make this long 100-minute movie short, "baseketball," a real game invented by david zucker and his friends in his hometown of milwaukee, is about two lazy losers (parker and stone) and their pint-sized mutual friend who invent baseball and basketball (hence the title) together on the driveway of one's house. after borgnine dies, he bequeaths the ownership of his baseketball team, the milwaukee beers to parker and stone. sure enough, the game goes national, and archrivals vaughn and mccarthy want to take away ownership of the beers team from them. but bleeth is in love with both men, particularly parker, and one poor, sick charge in need of a liver transplant goes ga-ga over them. those are the characters, not strongly developed.<br /><br />now witless gags ensue. blood, electroshock hair, egg-throwing and screaming are among them. parker and stone nearly kill the youngster in the hospital, but he pulls through the liver transplant. borgnine sings and rubs ointment on his chest in the videotaped will. mccarthy, who seemed to get over borgnine's death by choking on a frank right away, quickly massages vaughn in the next scene. cheerleaders dance in skimpy outfits. there is plenty of music on the soundtrack that is played for the hard of hearing. and david zucker forces the parodies of "riverdance" and "titanic." parody forcing is nothing new to zaz, post "airplane!" and "the naked gun" series.<br /><br />and like siskel, i was sober as well, but i was also getting sleepy. this movie should be played over and over to coarse-mannered barroom patrons who enjoy it as they chug down beers, but will they remain alert and awake, or pass out during the unfunny parts? if they pass out, then they won't realize that they are luckily missing stupidity and absurdity. hats off to them!