...and not in a good way. baseketball is a waste of film in all most every single way. it is offensive to all the senses. this doesn't necessarily bother me, i've seen plenty of bad movies, really bad movies before and will see them again. baseketball though is a caliber film where you regret wasting ninety minutes of life sitting through it. the reason baseketball offends me is that it stars trey parker and matt stone in a film they didn't write. any respect i had for david zucker has long since depleted. his recent spoof films are lazy messes that look and feel as if they were made by pre-pubescent boys snickering at penis jokes. "airplane" was a revolutionary and very funny comedy, watching baseketball you will be amazed to discover that they were made by the same person.<br /><br />i have so much respect for trey parker and matt stone. these men are the funniest and smartest comedians in mainstream entertainment today. their pictures and south park episodes are as relevant as they are funny. every joke even the fart jokes have intelligence behind them. it's easy to forget that there is a mature way to approach immaturity. i imagine baseketball was a major growing experience for them because they hate the film for all the right reasons. it is a stupid mess with no sense of dignity or class. parker and stone have essentially whored themselves out. the film plays like a 90 minute episode of family guy.<br /><br />parker and stone have never been great actors. they've been serviceable in their films. i can't really find a way to describe their performance in baseketball, other than the fact that it feels like they are spoofing a spoof film spoofing a spoof film. every line is delivered in such a silly winking way. it's like they are trying to make fun of the worst of these type of pictures and yet they become them in the same way. i am reminded of the south park episode "how to eat with your butt" where cartman sits in a movie theater watching a gross out comedy with no plot or plausibility except to gross out, parker and stone use the same voices they did in that scene for this entire picture. really it's sad.<br /><br />and yet that is not my problem with baseketball. my biggest gripe with the picture is that i sit there knowing that parker and stone are knowingly following this piece of crap script. i know that if they took the damn thing and rewrote it that this could have been salvaged to the point of being watchable. there isn't any indication that zucker let them improv scenes either. parker and stone are merely tools to a bad director. baseketball has some funny concepts and i think parker especially if he were allowed to take zuckers script could have elaborated on them more. instead we get potty humor. don't rent baseketball you can get the same laughs watching a group of grade schoolers joking around