i gave this movie a 5 out of pure pity. my intention is not to burst anyone's bubble, because i've seen, as i've skimmed through other comments, that this movie is quite appreciated by many. well, it is not worth any praises, and i say this because i've seen the original anime, basilisk, and this movie shames it deeply. perhaps if you see shinobi alone, you could like it. it is enjoyable due to the well-choreographed battles, based on fantasy more than on martial arts, and i agree that their beauty is deeply enhanced. but the story is nothing like the original one. now, i understand that when one transforms an anime/manga into a movie, one must make certain changes. i was not expecting to see the freakish characters from the anime, although they have a well-established role, and some are truly profound and well-designed. but i certainly did not expect to see immense and wrongly-placed changes, that basically ruin the entire story. characters who are dramatically and unethically mutilated, transformed in something the public might love more, perhaps. for instance, oboro, who, in the anime is a sweet, innocent girl, completely and utterly in love with gennosuke, becomes a vengeful clan leader in the movie. i liked the fact that the woman becomes strong and evades the limitations imposed on her by the era (we are talking about japan, 17th century), but her mood changes are unbelievable and badly written. hotarubi, which is one of my favourite characters in the film, but who is not known for her childish and sensitive nature, becomes a pathetic little girl who is not only not madly in love like in the anime, but is more or less worthless in the plot. i could go on and on, like how they made tenzen, the worst and most dangerous character in the anime, exceptionally weak and unattractive, or how gennosuke, the leading character seems completely misplaced and confused, not to mention, again weak. the music is beautiful and the image is astounding, which was expected of a japanese movie, and i appreciate it for that. but do not watch this if you've seen and enjoyed basilisk, because it is just hopeless. basilisk, although based on fantasy, with elements of horror and largely exaggerated is splendid and has so much more depth in its characters, storyline, historical value and it is, may i say, heartbreaking. shinobi was a waste of time and i could not believe it kept on going after what was supposed to be the climax. alas, it pains me deeply to judge a movie so harshly, but i advise you against it. please, watch the anime, or at least watch the movie first and then repair your image of what basilisk really is by watching the anime. otherwise you will have a seizure when you realize how they've massacred it.