it seems a shame that greta garbo ended her illustrious career at the age of 36 with this ridiculous mistaken-identity marital romp. coming off the success of her first romantic comedy, ernst lubitsch's masterful "ninotchka" (1939), where she was ideally cast as an austere russian envoy, garbo is reunited with her leading man melvyn douglas for a sitcom-level story that has her playing karin borg, a plain-jane ski instructor who impulsively marries publishing executive larry blake when he becomes smitten with her. once he makes clear that work is his priority, karin inadvertently decides to masquerade as her high-living twin sister katherine to test her husband's fidelity when he is back in manhattan.<br /><br />it's surprising that this infamous 1941 misfire was directed by george cukor, who led garbo to her greatest dramatic performance in 1937's "camille", because this is as unflattering a vehicle as one could imagine for the screen legend. only someone with carole lombard's natural sense of ease and mischief could have gotten away with the shenanigans presented in the by-the-numbers script by s.n. behrman, salka viertel and george oppenheimer. mgm's intent behind this comedy was to contemporize and americanize garbo's image for wartime audiences whom the studio heads felt were not interested in the tragic period characters she favored in the thirties.<br /><br />however, garbo appears ill-at-ease mostly as the bogus party girl katherine and especially compared to expert farceurs like douglas and constance bennett as romantic rival griselda. photographed unflatteringly by joseph ruttenberg, garbo looks tired in many scenes and downright hideous in her teased hairdo for the "chica-choca" dance sequence. the story ends conventionally but with the addition of a lengthy physical sequence where larry tries to maneuver his skis on a series of mountain cliffs that unfortunately reminds me of sonny bono's death. roland young and ruth gordon (in a rare appearance at this point of her career) show up in comic supporting roles as douglas' associates. this movie is not yet on dvd, and i wouldn't consider it priority for transfer as it represents a curio in garbo's otherwise legendary career. she was reportedly quite unhappy during the filming. i can see why.