alright normally i am not as harsh on sequels especially if the first film is done well and was ultimately a good movie. as for 1999 i feel that one of the top five films was cruel intentions. it had everything a great movie should have except for an original story, being adapted from a novel it was still damn good. on to cruel intentions 2 which was supposed to actually just be the opener for a series based on the film called manchester prep. which must not have happened. actually after seeing this trifle of a film i can understand. before the thing started i was like at least the writer and director roger kumble did this one also. well 1 minute into this movie i was disappointed. it starts off with a rehash of the opening of the original with a different twist sebastian instead of putting the shrinks daughter's naked picture on the net he puts the schools principals wife in the school directory naked. this would have been alright if the lady was not like 50. and basically the rest of the movie is a wannabe carbon copy of the original. which i understand the if there is nothing wrong with it leave it the way it was. but you can not do that with a movie. this actually being a prequel i gave it a chance just to see how they turned out like they did in part 1. but with sebastian being more or less just a prankster and kathryn being a herself and turning sebastian into the sexual predator he was in the real story, this movie had no foundation to it. whoever did the casting on this thing was way off. they could have at least tried to get people who looked like the original cast but no, they just hired a bunch of not even really good looking actors. i am using this term although i dont know why. they for sure didnt do any in this movie.<br /><br />all this movie is a bunch of one liners that dont even match the wit that the original had, well some of them did but that was just because they were from part 1. another bad point was in part one you could understand the need for them to act out for attention because there was no involvement from teir parents this one had them in it and they were poorly used, as if to show why the kids are like this. it didnt work though. the best thing though about the original was that the cast had chemistry they took you into this world. the on screen tension that was there made the film what it was. this thing really ruins the experience of the first one stay way from this.