it is true that some fans of peter sellers work may be disappointed with this, his last venture. but surely any fan of sellers will find delight in all of his films, simply because of the man's huge talent. and the fiendish plot of dr. fu manchu is certainly no exception. unfortunately this would prove to be sellers last film, (it was even released after his death), but it's still nice to see how the man had managed to keep his irreplaceable talent right until his untimely demise. and not only do we get one sellers, but we get to, for sellers plays not only the title role but also his nemesis, the equally bizarre nayland smith, the detective on the hunt for the crazed 168 year old fu. the story is equally outlandish as we follow fu's outrageous antics to make his age-defying elixir and also nayland and his group of associates trying to prevent him. just like any of sellers greater films, the film comes with a guaranteed impeccable performance from him, as well as many of his familiar-faced co-stars - david tomlinson, sid caesar, john le mesurier, clive dunn and helen mirren to name a few. it's also nice to see pink panther stalwart burt kwouk (cato) enjoying a cameo with sellers - albeit playing the same role, but still nice. the story is indeed pretty ridiculous, as are many of the characters involved, which classes this as a film strongly under the goon influence. and, although it never reaches the heights of goon comedy, there are plenty of amusing jokes that seem to point in the right direction. the film failed commercially on it's initial release due to the entire world mourning after sellers' death (the film was released less than 3 weeks after)and there is always that sorrowful thought lurking in the back of your mind when viewing it that this was sellers last film. it's far from a great film - it's often slow, too ridiculous, and sometimes the jokes simply aren't there - but it is nevertheless enjoyable - if only for another top rate performance from peter sellers.