worst film ever, this is a statement that people here on imdb often throw around. whether it's an uwe boll movie, bad classics like manos the hands of fate or the latest no brains summer action fest from michael bay, people are often quick to jump to the sudden conclusion that on the board they're posting that there is nothing worse in the movie world.<br /><br />i envy these people, because they're blissfully ignorant and unaware of how deep the rabbit hole of crap movie making really goes. there are films out there so bad, so hideous, so unintentionally hilarious and so ridiculous that cults form around them to celebrate their awfulness and their discussion boards are the kindest places on the internet due to everyone agreeing unanimously that said film is really that bad.<br /><br />ladies and gentlemen, i present to you ben and arthur, an 85 minute gay epic that is so utterly bad that it's a lot like a violent car crash, you know it's awful but you can't stop looking at it. the brainchild of self proclaimed "hollywood actor, director" and may i add beached whale sam mraovich, this film is legendarily terrible. let me give you a hint of how ego driven this project was. mr mraovich not only directed this film, he wrote it, produced it, executive produced it, scored it, edited it and then finally starred in it. this is a man so blinded by his own ego and so believing of his non existent genius that like someone with an ugly child he fails to recognise just how catastrophic his bastard creation really is.<br /><br />everything in this film fails on an epic level, the acting is the worst you will ever witness, the plot is the most ridiculous, the editing and cinematography is the most amateur and even the music is like nails on a chalkboard. i'm aware i've gone on a bit of a tangent here, but please believe me that this film is really as bad as i describe it, i would say this film is horse crap squished into a film reel, but the truth is it wasn't even shot on film, it was shot on a digital camcorder not much better than the one sitting in your closet right now gathering dust. don't get me wrong, i forgive low budgets for films provided the concept is interesting, for example as much as i disliked it the blair witch project proved that low budgets can still lead to an atmospheric interesting film. ben and arthur does not have a good concept to fall back on, even if this film was shot on a budget of 20 million with hollywoods finest actors it would still suck, the plot is that atrocious, and the characters are even worse. one of the main characters arthur who is portrayed by non other than sam mraovich is one of the most whiny loathsome little turds ever put in a film. you'll dislike him within 5 minutes of the start of the film and by the end of the film that hate will have turned into outright loathing. apparently mr mraovich forgot that we're supposed to root for the hero.<br /><br />i don't want to spoil all the gut busting hilarity you'll experience watching this film (which i urge you not to pay for) so i will give you two tame mild examples of how stupid this film is, tame and mild as in amongst the least offending mistakes in the movie. in one cut we hear one of the main characters say how "they know a good lawyer and will give him a call" the shot fades out then fades back in and this him they spoke of earlier is actually a woman, quite a spectacular mistake to make in post production i think. the second is simple, seconds after seeing this transsexual lawyer the characters are told to fly to vermont, we then cut to a shot of a plane landing amongst palm trees in a sunny area. i've never been to vermont personally but i'm certain you won't find any palm trees there.<br /><br />imagine this kind of stupid amateur inconsistency stretched to nearly an hour and a half combined with ridiculous dialogue and plot and then multiply it by 10 and it still won't fully prepare you for ben and arthur. imagine the absolute worst film you've seen in your life and imagine it being even worse and you still won't be on the same level as ben and arthur, this film is really that bad.<br /><br />however we should be glad in a way, films like this are a true rarity. they give us hope that one day we can become film makers ourselves or that we can be screenwriters. simply because we'll have a new found sense of confidence due to the fact that we'll know that nothing we produce no matter how amateur could be as much of a suck fest as this.<br /><br />the real worst movie of all time has finally been discovered, and it is called ben and arthur.