if there were a movie that deserved a 0 out of 10, this would be it. 'house of the dead' redefines the term "bad movie". other bad movies, such as 'when a stranger calls' or 'premonition', will actually look much better when compared to 'house of the dead'. the basic "plot" of house of the dead is a group of twenty-somethings travel to a remote island to attend the "rave of the century". when they get there, they only find some tents, a bar, a stage, and some bloody t-shirts. they decide to stay anyway, and they are soon attacked by zombies.<br /><br />there is absolutely nothing redeeming about this movie. it is not entertaining. instead, it is painful to watch because of how terrible it is. the acting is unbelievably bad. in a dvd interview, one of the actors claimed that uwe boll, the director, is not afraid to tell someone when they are doing a good job or a bad job in a scene. this is a blatant lie. the script appears to have been written by an 11-year-old, who decided to include a scene of someone throwing up on a girl's chest and to include the hilarious line, "it smells like someone farted out here." the characters have no personality or depth and they do some of the most moronic things ever seen in a horror movie. somewhere along the way, the characters also magically transform into a swat team to take down the zombies. it's like they don't even have to aim their guns and they automatically shoot the zombies in the head.<br /><br />the scariest thing by far about this movie is the directing. there is something wrong with uwe boll. boll's camera work is astonishingly disjointed. his pans to zombies running through the forest are more silly than menacing. worse yet, boll actually thought it would be a good idea to include small bits of footage from the house of the dead video game into the movie. quite often, and at the most random times, you will suddenly see an animated zombie getting shot. it makes no sense. no one in their right mind would think that was a good idea. it's like boll wants to remind us repeatedly that this movie is supposed to be based on the video game. uwe boll also decided it would be cool to include slow motion 360 degree rotating shots during the action scenes, a la 'the matrix'. unfortunately, he does it way too often and each shot is nauseating. the soundtrack to this movie also boggles the mind. most action scenes are accompanied by loud rap track. this also adds to the ensuing headaches caused by the atrocious 'house of the dead'.<br /><br />'house of the dead' isn't bad because it's based on a video game. in fact, it has very little to do with the video game. it also does not fit into the category of 'so bad that it's good'. it does however fit into the category of 'so bad that it's painful'. this movie just plain sucks. uwe boll should never be let anywhere near another movie set. even his presence will curse a production. to all the directors out there: whenever one of your movies gets a bad review, all you have to do is remember that you didn't make 'house of the dead' and you will feel much better. i will never get those 90 minutes of my life back. to sum it up, words really cannot describe just how bad this movie is. everyone involved in the production of this film, especially uwe boll, should be ashamed of themselves. although what i have said may make 'house of the dead' sound funny, it really isn't. nothing about it is funny. avoid this at all costs.