first off, i knew nothing about 'mazes and monster' before i watched it. i had no knowledge of the role-playing controversy behind it or the fact that it was a made-for-tv movie. when i looked at the cover (the updated dvd one) i seriously thought it would be another fantasy adventure like 'legend', with tom hank as the nerdy hero from 1980s earth entering a mythical world to save a princess from an evil maze filled with monsters. sounds exciting, right? that is what the cover suggests to you at first glance. i was given this movie as a gift, obviously under the same premise because my aunt knows i'm into action movies with a medieval myth theme. and it has tom hanks, one of my favorite actors. so i popped this movie in, expecting a feel good movie with tom hanks in a 80s special effects world that would be good for a laugh.<br /><br />no! none of this happens. now before i continue i will confess, i am a nerd but i have no interest in role-playing games. that is all this movie is about so my interest in the content is lukewarm at best. and m&m (copyright infringement?) is not even a feel good role-playing based movie with lovable geeks that uses their imagination to enter a world of awesomeness. no! this is an anti-role-playing movie that must have been made by some religious folk (the same people who also think barney is the work of satan.) i understand, satan is a crafty fellow but i don't think he is desperate enough for soul to lull rpg lovers into worship him. this movie is thee anti-gamer movie. this is what i get from this movie: it hates rpgs and not only does it make fun of the people engaging in role-playing but it makes poor tom hanks a mental patient.<br /><br />tom had an excuse to talk to a volleyball in 'castaway', poor guy was alone but tom somehow made his insanity fun and you literally saw the volleyball as a lovable character through tom's good acting. i wish i watched that movie instead of this. in this movie, tom is attacked by a make believe dragon creature (it looks like a poorly made mascot for a rpg team) and has a split personality that is creepy at best. tom's acting only exceeds to make you feel bad for his character and nothing else. i get that the poor guy lost his brother and is not right in the head because of it so the movie does win points for being intentionally tragic. i am not one for films that exploit mental illness and the ending to 'm&m' made me feel like cr*p. luckily i watched 'hudson hawk' afterwards and got a good laugh before my soul was crushed any further. yah, 'hh' surpasses 'm&m' by . . . a lot! this is not one of tom's better films. in fact it is thee most depressing movie i've ever seen him in (even 'saving private ryan' is not this depressing). i walked in hoping to watch a feel good movie and i ended up feeling the exact opposite. if you want to watch a sad (both emotionally and visually) movie then by all means watch this. if this movie is to convey a message, it is this: "don't play rpgs if you are cuckoo for coco-puffs."