first, i should mention that i really enjoyed ishii katsuhito's previous film "samehada otoko to momojiri onna" ("shark skin man and peach hip girl"). although it owed a debt to tarentino's "pulp fiction", ishii's cast was up to the task of carrying the story, and the entire film crackled with energy. the scenes between asano tadanobu and gashuin tatsuya were particularly engaging. there was action, intrigue, bizarre characterizations, enough sex to keep things interesting, and an utterly unpredictable story line.<br /><br />so it was with a certain amount of anticipation and optimism that i began to watch "party 7". and my enthusiasm was certainly piqued with the opening credits, which left my wife and i actually stunned by how dynamic and exciting they were; the mix of anime and live-action work was brilliant! then, the actual movie started. actually, it didn't so much "start" as sort of shuffle in the side door and stand there, fumbling through its pockets, looking uncomfortable.<br /><br />the entire film takes place in three rooms. one is a futuristic voyeur's paradise (borrowed a bit from "shark skin man..."), another is a travel agent's office, and the third (and far the most used) is a seedy hotel room. in that room, a cast of seven characters meets and...does approximately nothing. really. i'm no stranger to "talking" films. one of my all-time favorites is "my dinner with andre", the talkiest of all talking films. "my dinner with andre" is far more exciting, and it just has two middle-aged men discussing their lives over dinner. the key is that andre gregory and wallace shawn tell interesting stories. the cast of "party 7" literally just whine at each other for the entire film. "no, you don't!" "yes, i do!" "no, you really don't!" "yes, i really do!" "no, you really, really don't!" yes, i really..." you get the idea, i hope. i wish the directer had.<br /><br />"party 7 is an unbelievably unengaging film. there is only the flimsiest of plots (money stolen from the yakuza, just like in "shark skin man..."), accompanied by almost no action. there is no interesting dialog. the characters are largely uninteresting. it was as if ishii took the throwaway conversational moments from tarentino's films and built an entire film around them. but tarentino's conversations always have their own internal logic and wit ("they call it a 'royale, with cheese'"). not so with the dialog here, which is duller than you can imagine. if it weren't for the brief, hilarious cameo from gashuin (who is always marvelous) and a low-key performance from the awesome asano tadanobu, i would've given "party 7" a single star. it really was chore to make it all the way through.