since i'd seen the other three, i figured i might as well catch this made for tv fourth part of the omen series. as a stand alone film, this movie is mediocre; but as a sequel to the 1976 masterpiece; it's a travesty. the film goes along the same route that many series' go down when they're running out of ideas; that being the idea of changing the male lead to a female. it's always obvious that this film was made for television as the acting is very standard, the plot lacks ideas and the gruesome murder scenes seen in the previous three are kept to a bloodless minimum. the film does keep a thread with the original, which i won't reveal as despite being obvious; that revelation is one of the most interesting aspects of the movie. the basics of the plot largely copy richard donner's original, and see a young couple adopt a child, which they name delia (not damiella or damiana, fortunately). there's a big dog involved, and a child minder; and pretty soon, the wife starts to suspect that the child may not quite be normal; as she's menstruating at eight years old, and never suffered from any illnesses...<br /><br />the first two sequels to the omen weren't bad at all, and the series really should have ended at number three. i guess there was money involved somewhere down the line, as there really is no artistic reason why this film should have been made. it brings nothing to the table in terms of originality, and the only thing it's likely to succeed in doing is annoying fans of the series. the film looks and feels like a tv movie all the way through and for the most part plays out like a film about the troubled upbringing of a young girl. indeed, asia vieira does look like a little bitch; but she never convinces that she's the antichrist, as her stares are redundant and most of the 'evil' she does is laughable. faye grant is given the meatiest role, and doesn't impress; while the rest of the cast regret agreeing to star in such an awful waste of time. the only good thing about this movie is the theme tune, which of course has been ripped off from the original; and is overused. on the whole, this film really isn't worth seeing; as it delivers nothing that the series is famous for, and doesn't even do justice to weaker second sequel.