and it did. it is through my experience that when a horror film reaches "franchise" status, and subsequent titles are released thereafter, they all, in turn, become stricken by one inevitable factor: irrelevance. omen iv: the awakening makes no exception to this rule, featuring another small child supposedly embracing their role as the anti-christ, foretold by a religious prophecy. haven't we seen this before? wasn't it enough that, over the span of three films prior to this release, we've experienced the rise and fall of damien thorn? if you're a horror enthusiast such as myself, you'll realize that it's common for a horror movie that has many sequels and prequels to its credit to fade away into redundancy - children of the corn, hellraiser, phantasm; the list goes on. at this point in the game, i'm sure you know what to expect when you're prepared to view the fourth title in a series. regardless, there are times when you sit back and realize how shameless some filmmakers are. omen iv: the awakening is just that, too - a shameless money making exercise.<br /><br />this film does not offer anything new or intriguing to the omen lineup. as unique and genuine as omen iv tries to be compared to its siblings, the similarities and plot devices are embarrassingly alike. elements like the guardian dog, the involvement of a priest, the skepticism of the people involved, the decapitation death scene (clearly a homage to the original film when the journalist is beheaded by the sheet of glass)...even right down to the father's involvement in politics and prestige within the community make it too predictable. <br /><br />although it is common to star a b-rated cast into a horror title this far into a series, the acting is off the charts, chock-full of ridiculousness and unintentional humor due to some of the poorly delivered lines throughout this film. the atmosphere has completely vanished in comparison to the first three titles. in addition, the epic score composed by goldsmith in the previous movies has been replaced by an auditory debacle; an absolute joke, and made me wonder if it was actually intended to be used for this film or just pulled from a "bank" of stock audio...which really says something, because rarely do i comment on the lousy misuse of a musical score - until now.<br /><br />all in all, i'd call omen iv: the awakening a failure. in the world of horror movies that carry a long list of titles behind them, some manage to hit the mark and some don't. if you're interested in creating another notch on your weathered horror belt such as i am for completion purposes, perhaps you could carve this title into it as well - if not for entertainment value, then to appreciate when a film is executed properly, or poorly.