i recently decided to revisit the omen trilogy only to discover that {insert demonic music here} there is a fourth. i didn't expect much from it, and in that respect it certainly lived up to my expectations. if you're into watching bad movies for a laugh, then this just may be the movie for you. oh, where do we start?<br /><br />from the onset, the "made for tv" look and feel of the movie was obvious. the music was often inappropriately matched with what was happening in the movie and therefore (at best) distracting. the script had all the suspense of an 8 year-olds work of fiction. but one thing that must be said is that the lacking script was very well matched up with the appalling acting. numerous scenes left me contemplating whether it was the script or the acting that was the source of ridiculousness.<br /><br />the story itself is quite thin, centering on all the crazy antics of the daughter of damien thorn, adopted out by wrong-doing and badly acted nuns. there is the usual lot of mysterious and convoluted deaths that personally made me yawn as the "drama" unfolded, and the usual third-party investigator into the whole affair. later, via some medical phenomena, damien thorn jnr is born. and that pretty much wraps up the plot. the whole thing is executed rather badly right from the beginning with the lack of suspense making the movie one monotonous and/or ridiculous scene after another. <br /><br />there were many wtf?!? moments too that provides the unintended comedy relief. for example, what's with the major over-reaction at the beginning of the movie when the baby scratches the mother's cheek?? hardly a 360-degree-head-turning omen. i also laughed at the over-reaction at the baptism. the baby cries, and everyone looks very concerned. the distressed mother runs out of the church and the priest is left looking very alarmed while crossing himself. huh? then there is the new-age nanny that seems to have carte blanche on exposing an 8 year-old to all kind of alternative spiritualism. i laughed when the nanny suggested bringing the troubled delia to a psychic fair to meet the nanny's hippie friends and the mother just shrugs her shoulders and allows it. "yeah that's groovy, fill my troubled 8 year old daughter's head with all this mysticism stuff. that's cool. i don't need to be there." of course this would be expected from a mother who allows her daughter to adopt a fully grown rottweiler they encounter on the street that could bite the little girls head off as a snack. the entire scene at the psychic fair is quite comical in a slapstick kinda way, from the horrified reactionary stares of the psychics to delia, to the ensuing inferno.<br /><br />i also laughed at how the nun's death is considered a "freak accident". here we have a religious zealot, (who is described as being part of a cult), who is fanatically preaching in a pit full of rattlesnakes to prove how god's glory will protect them. she antagonizes the snakes by handling them and somehow she is bitten several times. hardly a freak accident. more like a successful suicide attempt. <br /><br />the snakes-vs-nun scene wasn't the only comical death. there is the slow-speed car accident resulting in decapitation in a school parking lot. then there is the slow-motion demolition ball headed straight for the detective. i believe i may have gone and made a coffee when the slow-motion started only to come back to see the demolition ball still headed straight for the "concerned" detective. then there is the quintessential who-shot-who clich'e death, where a gun goes off and both act as if they have been shot for several seconds while exchanging horrified glances. then someone goes tumbling down the stairs revealing who the real victim was. additionally, the death of the priest at the beginning of the movie seemed a little strange and pointless to me. he runs around looking at the architecture of the church. obviously finding this quite distressing, he eventually collapses, clutching his chest and dies. apparently something demonic was happening, as this is what the music was suggesting. ummm. ok. <br /><br />i am surprised that others have reviewed this film favorably and, in particularly, as a "worthy sequel". it is difficult not to notice the non-sensical script, the unrealistic acting, and the inappropriate musical score. the movie lacks any suspense, relying heavily on delia's "demonic stare" to provide a sense of horror, which becomes rather annoying after a short time. <br /><br />bottom line : this is a bad movie with the only redeeming feature being it's unintended potential for being a comedy.