only the antichrist could have been behind such a disaster. one only hopes that this irony was the motivating force behind the "film"! this movie was so bad, it forced me to register with imdb, finally, just so i could trash it. what makes this movie all the more tragic is that it had such great source material! i have never seen a movie where all the elements were so grotesquely mediocre as to render the result less than the sum of its parts.<br /><br />it may seem insignificant, but i'd like to start with the score. as the proud owner of a music degree, i must register my indignation! i was torn between laughter and dry heaves as i listened to what john scheffer did to goldsmith's brilliant score; it was far more gruesome than any of the burlesque death scenes, and almost as inadvertently comedic. it was by far the most inappropriate score i've heard since, well, i really can't think of a worse one. maybe jaws 4?<br /><br />as for the plot... i'm sorry. new age mysticism??? what ever happened to the gritty realism of the original trilogy? in those films (more so in the first two than the third, but still!!) the supernatural was for the most part implied, and it was this subtlety that made the movies so eerily believable. here we have crystals going black (calling all skeksis and mystics!!) and inverted crucifixes galore, even though in certain scenes the crucifux would be perfectly normal but for the camera angle. gone is the refined psychlogical manipulation tapping the malaise inherent in our collective psyche: in its place a boorish "slap in the face" of recycled clich'e and transparent incompetence. add to that a lead "actress" so unbelievably annoying that you fervently thank the director for those scenes from which she is absent. never have i seen a little girl so fundamentally irritating since little stephanie ruined all in the family.<br /><br />other than that, i have no strong feelings on the subject ;-) luckily the first three films are sufficiently adroit as to render this train-wreck of wasted celluloid inconsequential or, at the very most, a study in how not to make a film. viewer beware! may induce vomiting if you're lucky.