after just 15 minutes into this film, i began to miss zhang yimou's earlier, more weighty films that looked at the politics and society of china from unique perspectives. his turn to martial arts films was a serious misstep in my humble opinion. hero was his worst film since operation cougar, with a needlessly complex story and acting more wooden than that found in a john agar film. shi mian mai fu is no different. as an american who has been studying chinese films for a few years now (and understands and can speak some mandarin), i'm sure my opinion is different from many others as i'm coming from a different background. smmf, like hero, is not really a traditional a kung fu film, and it's certainly not a wuxia pian film. there are no sword & sorcery or chivalry elements here. this is a completely different vehicle than infinitely more watchable films such as a chinese ghost story (all 3), the butterfly murders, green snake, et al. while those all featured charismatic leads who looked like they were actually enjoying what they do, smmf features bland, and sometimes laughable, dialogue combined with cardboard acting. zhang ziyi plays a blind person about as well as ben affleck. there's an air of superiority with this film that's really quite insulting. it takes itself so seriously, it just becomes a huge joke by the end. all the actors look as though this is the most important piece of celluloid in history, they destroy any chance of actually conveying emotions, and the complete humorlessness of it really makes you wonder if zhang yimou was making a film per se, or simply a showcase (i.e. an "ego booster") for zhang ziyi. the camera is literally making out with her face and she gets sexually assaulted not once but twice in the film. her acting range really hasn't extended past her ability to play a naive "w"itch. she's so concentrated on her acting, she comes across as cold and lifeless, as though she's reading her lines from a notecard. it's so funny to hear american critics and film people (like the completely clueless quentin tarantino) call this film a masterpiece. i guess if they see a bunch of asian actors on screen looking really important while flying through a bamboo forest, they're tricked into thinking it's brilliant film-making. ching siu tung's choreography, while still retaining his trademark style, editing, and postures, lacks the vitality and originality of his earlier films like a chinese ghost story, dragon inn, and duel to the death. sadly to say, the wirework in this film is really subpar, and if there's subpar/obvious wirework, then you probably shouldn't have filmed it at high speed. the same goes for the special effects which have a distinct b-movie feel to them. beans, daggers, bowls, arrows, swords, and other random objects fly through the air (after being thrown) with no regard for logic, turning, climbing, and banking as though there's a little pilot inside. i know that logic doesn't really hold a place in stylized chinese martial arts films, but if you don't want to induce a mass amount of giggling from your audience, then you should probably work on your compositing a bit more. mass melodrama, unintentionally funny dramatic moments, boring fight scenes, really uninspired plot twists are what await you with shi mian mai fu. it's obvious that zhang yimou is no longer making movies for chinese audiences. this is meant to crack into the western market just as cthd did. after watching hero and smmf, i've come to the conclusion that if zhang yimou wants to make hollywood films, he's definitely off to the right start. smmf is basically the phantom menace of chinese martial arts films. and i thought hero was bad.