ok, so i rented this clown-like-chainsaw-massacre-esquire film, not expected much, but i did like the novel approach to a serial killer film. (from the back of the box is the following synopsis) "at first, it was just a joke - a myth around the campfire - for five friends staying at a remote cabin in the texas woods. but when they began to disappear one-by-one, replaced by scattered, bloodied body parts and voodoo effigies, the remaining few scramble for their lives. but he's out there. and he's sick. and all he wants is blood..." so obviously from the get-go it doesn't make sense: why is this clown in the woods to begin with? why a clown? why are their dolls with the word "food" drawn on them? why why why? hardly anything gets answered in this 1 hour 30 min. bore fest except where this clown lives. the characters are dumb guys, dumb girls, and a hell of a lot of bitchiness. one in particular is a girl whom they brought from a restaurant up the road, whom they thought they should help because she was getting hassled by some guy she knew. what warrants that as an excuse to bring a girl into your circle of friends or their cabin? she, of course, begins planting seeds of jealousy, having the men have sex with her by feeding their dumb minds everything they want to hear.<br /><br />the music was an average affair (standard frantic keyboard music like in every horror film without differences). the actors seemed to be brought from some soap opera the way they complained and whined about everything. the idea that the main guy in the film takes this girl to the cabin as their first date makes for a horrible date, but of course, she unrealistically gives herself to him on the first night of getting to know him. there was hardly a budget spent of anything, it seems, but there was a clown outfit and plenty of cheap $1-store dolls lying around in the woods, which was a horribly bland place to shoot this whole movie (been done too many times). i was also waiting for the clown to jump into the house to kill the remaining 4 characters of the film (in through the glass maybe), but nothing exciting like that ever entered the film. i guess you were just supposed to like the clown being a killer or something.<br /><br />i had to give the film a 3. it was an interesting premise (clown as the texas chainsaw massacre character, essentially) and i'll give them a star for acting serious all the way through when the movie could've totally been a b-movie-style video, but they opted for the more legitimate style of video. but ultimately, i probably would've felt like renting the killer klowns from mars video again before going back to check this out. ah, but that cover art...pretty awesome drawing.