far from providing the caffeine kick you'd expect from a film that shares its name with the most energy-boosting of warm beverages, coffy clunks about and never really rises above being just a ropey revenge tale. indeed, if the movie was a cup of coffee, it'd be rather weak and watery, littered with a few undesirable dregs and lacking in a lingering aftertaste. sporadically it hits the spot, but otherwise it isn't the hot action-drama it hopes to be.<br /><br />plot-wise, coffy is a nurse who takes the law into her own hands and delivers hard justice to the drug-pushing, lady-pimpin', mob-suckers that hooked her younger sister into a depraved, sick state. socio-political commentary on the plight of urban black youths in america is prominent in coffy, and it makes for some thought-provoking stuff as coffy crusades against the political corruption and white establishment racism that profits and acts as a parasite off the targeted afro-american minorities. sadly, the timely messages are undermined by the film's poor quality and lack of focus. coffy's ideas are important, it's just that they are not well-aimed.<br /><br />one of the plus points of coffy is the presence of blaxploitation icon pam grier. grier goes at her role with gusto and makes for an appealing action heroine as she shotguns down the scum in her often spectacular acts of vigilante violence (how do you deal with a house full of hoods? drive the car right through the front door!). it's just a shame that the storyline wavers on occasions, wasting time squeezing as much sexual exploitation as possible. the low budget can't have helped, but neither does the fact that for a blaxploitation flick, coffy lacks groove. just as the issues are undermined by the lack of quality, consequently the entertainment and excitement are also skewered by moments of dullness and misdirection.<br /><br />the total result is workmanlike and wooden. we get a hip heroine but not a hip movie. it's a shame as coffy has its moments and should rightly be regarded as a key film in the blaxploitation craze; it just never ascends above being an average, lukewarm number.