i couldn't believe that this movie dates from 2007, it had all the looks of a below-average seventies horror-flick. didn't they have any knowledge of modern special effects or cgi?!? didn't they know that in the post-millennium the violence in a supposed horror- and/or scifi-movie should at least be a little bit graphic? or did i get the purpose wrong, was it supposed to be a deep and meaningful story of man and animal, bound together in the big cycle of life, or a warning to mankind not to mess with nature, or something like that?? it doesn't really matter, either way it turned out wrong and to me this movie failed on all accounts.<br /><br />first of all: the premise is very improbable. if at a given time you're capable of replacing a total eye, no responsible medical scientist would start his very first human attempt with both eyes at the same time, that's totally unprofessional. and to do all this apparently without informed consent of the patient?! and why on earth choose for eyes that have a totally unusual color for humans, and make the victim look like a freak?! by the way, i noticed that all the real wolves in the movie had puppy-like normal dark eyes, couldn't they have waited for such a specimen? the story is lame, it's about this poor guy aaron who gets these weird eye-transplants, which suddenly makes him feel like the donor-wolf (or at least, that's what i make of it) and then he's being chased by some military men. especially this last bit is ridiculous. i mean, i can understand that the army is interested in the results of the experiment (imagine soldiers with night-vision eye-sight!) but as the operation fails on account of the apparent nervous breakdown of the patient, it's beyond me why they're out to kill him. why not leave him alone and look for another usable recipient? (a volunteering soldier maybe??). and why try to kill everyone else that's involved with poor aaron, isn't that a bit steep?! who the hell are these militaries anyway, i hope not the us army or the government, they behave like psychopaths, walking around the hospital waving automatic weapons, raiding private apartments like they're after some public enemy # 1, and displaying during the ultimate show-down in the woods a total lack of discipline, like a bunch of frightened schoolchildren, panicking and shooting randomly around.<br /><br />aaron, for some unfathomable medical reason, feels like a wolf after the transplantation of the eyes. why would that be??? he suddenly sees visions of wandering wolves. what is this? are we supposed to believe that the memories of the donor-wolf are situated in it's eye-balls?!? and that the recipient of these eye-balls also adopts the wolf's craving for red (life-) meat and can jump off of a 30 feet high balcony and land unharmed on his all-fours like a cat (can a wolf even do that??!).<br /><br />the acting (or the lack thereof) didn't help the credibility of all this either: everyone stumbles through their lines like wooden dolls, especially this indian girl, she may be pretty but she can only come up with one expression (vexed) and some disinterested mumblings about the force of nature, and it beats me why aaron all of a sudden is all over her (but hey, there probably had to be at least one love-scene!). i really sympathized with actor cory monteith, who seems like a nice guy with a handsome enough face, but they didn't give him much to go with. he has to run around bare-chested for more than half of the movie, which could have been fun to watch, but then they had better chosen someone with a more impressive physique, monteith really should leave his shirt on. his (few) killings and attacks are hardly shown, we just hear some growling and cries of fear and then there's another victim lying down and aaron with some more blood on his face and chest. not much for a modern sci-fi horror! the only good acting came from justine bateman, and i really like to see how she has matured into a beautiful and classy forty-something lady. she did what she could with her silly lines and she even convinced me of being this doctor with good intentions, but they made her character a kind of a wimp, who gets totally bossed around by the leader of these militaries. what a pity that the script didn't make her stand up a bit more! <br /><br />in the end this sums up as being a silly and rather boring movie, hardly scary or thrilling, with unbelievable goings-on, a lot of overlong national geographic-like visuals of wolves running around woods and slopes (who cares?!?), some pretentious indian ramblings about man and nature and an uneven musical score with poppy songs at the most inappropriate moments. i guess the word "superfluous" covers it all.