how sheep-like the movie going public so often proves to be. as soon as a few critics say something new is good (ie - "shake-cam"), everyone jumps on the bandwagon, as if they are devoid of independent thought. this was not a good movie, it was a dreadful movie. 1) plot? - what plot? bourne was chased from here to there, from beginning to end. that's the plot. don't look for anything deeper than this. 2) cinematography? - do me a favor! any 7 year old armed with an old and battered 8mm movie camera would do a far better job (i am not exaggerating here). this film is a tour-de-force of astonishingly amateurish camera-work. the ridiculous shaking of every (i really do mean every) scene will cause dizziness and nausea. 3) believable? - oh yes definitely. this is a masterpiece of credibility. i loved scenes about bourne being chased by (local) police through the winding market streets of tangier. - i've been to tangier. even the guides can't navigate their way through those streets but bourne shook off 100 police with speed and finesse. greengrass must be laughing his head off at the gullibility of his film disciples. 4) editing? - i don't know what the editor was on when he did this film but i want some! - every scene is between 0.5 and 2 seconds. i felt nauseous at the end of the film from the strobe effect of the "scenes" flashing by. 5) directing? - hmmm. this is an interesting aspect. the film appears to have actually not had any directing. more a case of greengrass throwing a copy of the script (all two pages) at the cameramen and told to "shoot a few scenes whilst drunk". - "don't worry boys, we'll tie the scenes together in the editing room". the editor should be tarred, feathered and put in the stocks for allowing this monstrosity to hit the silver screen 6) not one but two senior cia operatives giving the tender feminine treatment to the mistreated and misunderstood jason bourne. - putting their lives on the line for someone they couldn't even be sure wasn't a traitor. talk about stupid nincompoops. (whilst the evil male cia members plot to terminate any operative who so much as drops a paper-clip on the floor). (well, all men are evil, aren't they? - except for snags of course). yes, this really is a modern and politically correct film that shows the females to be the heroes of the day and the oppressive males as the real threat to humanity. 7) when the you-know-what finally hits the fan, good triumphs over evil (just like it always does, eh?) and the would-be assassin gets the drop on jason bourne - he suddenly undergoes a guilt trip and refrains from pulling the trigger (yeah - right...) - at that very moment, the evil deputy director just happens to turn up - gun in hand and he does pull the trigger. - how did this 60 year old man run so fast and not even be out of breath? wonders will never cease 8) don't worry, there's a senate hearing and the baddies get pulled up before the courts. well, we can't have nasty, politically incorrect, cia operatives going round shooting people, can we? how lovely to see a true to life p.c. film of the noughties. -------------the bourne ultimatum is utter rubbish.