the number of goofs in this episode was higher than the first 9. they don't follow their own rules about spirits where destruction of the body makes the spirit dissolve. this one dropped a second body. that body, and dean, drop about 20 feet from sam but then they are right with sam. flashlights go out in an unlighted asylum, at night, and we can still see everything. it's night but light is streaming through the windows. a ghost that died in 1960's is making cell phones calls? come on! there is no way sam could get a psychiatrist to see him in the same day he makes an appointment and the doctor talks to sam like it wasn't his first visit. sam and dean knew there were other bodies in the asylum and innocent spirits still lurking and didn't do anything to help them. that doesn't seem like a thing the winchester boys would do. oh and after crawling around on a dirt filled mattress and all around a nasty asylum the girls' makeup and hair is perfect and not a smudge on her white shirt. <br /><br />while the implementation of this episode had problems the premise was good and a few times i was not creeped out but nervous as dean sat reading elicots' journal. i just knew that an object so intensely personal to the ghost would draw it to the person violating it's sanctity. elicot didn't appear. maybe that is a fault for such an important object or place (like elicot's office) should draw the spirit when a living being touches or enters. when they separate i want to scream... 'that's how you die! always stay together and watch each others backs!' but they don't listen to me :o the elicot spirit and his special ability was a very nice touch. it's prime-time show but i do wish the horror of elicot strapping one of his victims down and using anticipation of torture to creep us out further.<br /><br />especially because of the lighting goofs i gave this a 4. sudden darkness or the flickering of the whole scene's lighting as the flashlight flickers is all that more terrifying. the lighter coming or the flashlight reviving and instantly a spirit is in their face is shocking. i understand the directors wants us to see his scene but then make a mention or obvious connection by elicot touching an electric socket and the lights coming on. have the characters respond to the fact an asylum with no power suddenly has lights in the one room. blue white lights flickering as electric arcs just like elicot's finger power. <br /><br />seriously, mcg could have done better.