the bfg is one of roald dahl's most cherished books, but in this animated adaptation the magic just isn't there. this version remains pretty faithful to dahl's original story so one can't lay the blame on john hambley's script. if anything the fault lies with the colourless animation, the lethargic pace and the generally lacklustre voice-overs. one would be right to expect this story to make for a happy, vibrant, fun-filled movie..... instead, the film is a hopelessly dull affair that becomes quite tedious to watch. children who are not familiar with the story should definitely read the book first! all the film will achieve is to put them off read what is actually a children's' classic.<br /><br />young orphan sophie (voice of amanda root) lives in a none-too-friendly orphanage under the cruel supervision of mrs clonkers. one evening she is peering through the window when she spots a massive figure walking stealthily down the village street. the figure realises it has been seen, so it reaches in through the window and scoops sophie from her bed, placing her into its enormous pocket before fleeing into the night. sophie soon discovers that she has been kidnapped by a giant from giant country, and fears that he will eat her. but to her relief he turns out to be a kind and sensitive member of his species who introduces himself as the bfg (voice of david jason). the bfg refuses to eat people, instead restricting himself to foul-tasting vegetables known as snozzcumbers. however, giant country is populated by numerous other giants who do feast - every night, as it happens - on poor unsuspecting humans. sophie and the bfg become great friends, and soon they come up with a plan to thwart the other giants. together they go to the queen of england (voice of angela thorne) with their remarkable story and beg her to send the army and the air force to fight the man-eating giants. the queen agrees and so begins a dangerous operation to capture the bad giants before they can harm anyone else.<br /><br />jason voices the bfg quite well (one of the few pluses in the film) but his good work is almost ruined by somewhat poor sound quality. the rest of the voice work is decidedly uninspired, with very little to bring the characters to life. similarly, the bfg is the only character that is imaginatively animated - sophie lacks appeal, and the giants are boringly designed (and look almost indistinguishable from each other). even the places are uninventive; giant country especially comes up short, being nothing more than a barren wasteland with occasional rocks and canyons. at 88 minutes the film is not exactly lengthy, yet it drags quite badly in parts due to the soporific handling of several sequences. little of dahl's mischievous humour is conveyed satisfactorily. one chapter in the book deals with the bfg's love of "whizzpopping" (farting) and is laugh-out-loud hilarious. in the film, the same section is totally killed by unfunny handling. i came to the the bfg expecting lots of zest, fun and enjoyment, but what i got was pretty much the opposite! this one is a failed misfire that simply doesn't match the calibre of the book in any department - unfortunately, therefore, it must go down as one to skip.