"unhinged" is one strange little film, a forgotten slasher from the golden age of the genre. it's hard to really write a satisfying review of this film simply because of the fact that the film is so unique. it's plot is fairly overdone--three young women on their way to a rock concert get in a car crash and end up stranded at the mansion of an eccentric old woman and her spinster daughter. very quickly, the ladies realize something is not quite right when they hear strange breathing and noises from the attic. on top of that, the mother and daughter seem to have a very, very strange relationship, as they quarrel intensely in front of their houseguest at dinner. the old mother even goes as far as calling her daughter a whore and slut and accuses her of sneaking guys in at night to sleep with them. halfway through the film, when one girl finally decides she better wander off to find help, the killing begins. <br /><br />as far as the acting goes, this film is at the bottom of the barrel. none of the three stranded girls can act, particularly the "lead" girl. it is almost unbelievable to hear them deliver their lines in the same, wooden tone throughout the film. the mother and daughter are better, but not much. the film is also quite dull in parts and really, really drags. the killings are gruesome, but nothing we haven't seen before. however, as mentioned on here, the film really gains points with it brilliantly disturbing and gory ending. it comes totally from left field and has the same shock value as the ending the the camp classic "sleepaway camp." unfortunately, the rest of the film is a bore and suffers from horrendous acting and boring, boring pacing. the isolated, creepy looking mansion and the dark, foreboding lighting does give the film a grainy realism, but that is quickly shattered when one of the characters attempts to act. it may be worth it if you can stick it out until the end, but i say you are better off just fast forwarding to the last 10 minutes. 4 out 10