if one sits down to watch unhinged, it is probably because its advertisements, video boxes, whatever, scream that it was banned in the uk for over 20 years (as virtually every video nasty does). it's true; exploitation and taboo excites people and draws them in with their promise of controversy. being an exploitation fan, however, none of this was new to me. the advertisements that scream that the film was banned in the uk don't necessarily make me want to watch it; in fact, the first thing that usually pops into my head is how disgustingly paranoid british censors are. how i came to viewing this then is simple: it promised gore and it was only $6.99. the price alone alerted me not to have any hopes of this being the next halloween, but a cheap padding of your dvd collection never hurts. i did force myself, however, to watch it all in one sitting, because i find that deciding to save the rest for another day makes you even less inspired to finish it. so anyway, after 90 minutes of unhinged, i found that i had come across the cheapest sleeping aid in existence. i think the distributors could make a fortune if they simply changed their marketing technique.<br /><br />the layout of unhinged is of any common slasher from the 80s. there's unnecessary shower scenes and exploitative gore. that's about it. anyway, it starts with a group of three attractive co-eds crashing their car on the way to a concert. though two of them (terry and nancy) are okay, one (gloria) is severely injured and is out of commission for the rest of the movie. they are rescued and receive shelter at a mansion (that happens to have no phone, of course) with rather strange occupants: marion is a middle-aged woman with a man-hating mother who constantly accuses marion of sneaking men into the house in order to sleep with them (echoes of psycho?). she also happens to have a crazy brother carl who lives in the woods, because her mother's hatred for men is so intense that she refuses to let him stay in the house. after hanging with marion for awhile, terry (our "hero") and nancy decide they must contact their parents. despite everyone's warnings, nancy braves the dangerous woods to make it to a phone (her fate is not hard to predict). after that, we see gloria again, who is then promptly butchered with an ax. when terry discovers that gloria has disappeared from her room, she decides something isn't right with this picture and sets out to find her missing friends. that may be easier said than done, however, with crazy carl lurking around