film critics of the world, i apologize. it is your job to give advice to the moviegoing public so that they can wisely choose what to spend money on. but i ignored your advice and i have been deeply hurt. however, my decision to see "the cat in the hat" wasn't made haphazardly. you see, three years ago all of you critics said that we should all avoid the "calamity" known as "how the grinch stole christmas". then some friends of mine took me to see it and it turned out to be a colorful, funny and almost hypnotic yuletide treat. so when the critics unleashed their fury against "the cat in the hat", another big budget seuss update with a big name star in the title role, i thought that it must be the same old song. how wrong i was.<br /><br />for five whole minutes i thought i was in the clear. the opening credits are clever, the kids are charming and the production values are top notch. then the cat showed up. there are many problems from this point on, but the biggest one was the woeful miscasting of mike myers. where "the grinch" was saved by the inspired casting of jim carrey, "the cat" was destroyed by myers. he can be very funny when his energies are applied where they belong, comic sketches. every movie he's made that was truly funny was really just a feature length comedy sketch, from "wayne's world" to "austin powers". so he tries to do the same thing here, it's just that these comedy sketches are more like the stuff that they stick at the end of snl, not funny, just painful. not that the writers helped him out any. after the charming prologue the movie turns into an hour of repulsive bodily humor gags, poorly timed pratfalls and insultingly stunted attempts at hip humor. this movie was the most disheartening cinematic experience i have ever had. period. so much talent and work went into something so vile. i know that the adult stars of this movie will be relatively unscathed by this mess, i just hope that the wonderful spencer breslin and dakota fanning will get more chances to show their charms in far better movies. if you are a parent, please avoid this like the plague. with movies like "elf" and "brother bear" currently in theaters, you have far better choices.