but i doubt many were running to see this movie. or "some came running out of the cinema". okay, that's a bit harsh.<br /><br />the film starts in an unintentionally comical way: frankie-boy comes back to his hometown after many years (this already smells of clich'es) and the whole town is shaken by his arrival: he is talked about, everyone wants to talk to him, and every woman he meets flirts with him like there's no tomorrow - even his niece hints that she would gladly have dropped her date to chat with frankie-boy a little longer! even his pretty niece wants a piece of him! sounds like one of those laughable "mike hammer" episodes where every single female wants stacey keach. and, like stacey keach, frankie-boy is anything but a good-looking woman's wet dream. in real life, someone like sinatra (without the fame) wouldn't get within 100 m of someone as beautiful as maclaine. but in this hollywood movie it's the other way around: maclaine is absolutely nuts about frankie-boy, but he couldn't care less! sinatra plays his "cool" shtick much too often in his movies, and it is rarely credible. dean martin is kind of miscast; he isn't miscast as a card-player, but rather because of the accent which simply doesn't suit him. maclaine is charming as ever, but she plays a caricature - and this reliance on caricatures is one of the basic problems with the film. the main characters are all some sort of stereotypes out of bad or seen-it-all-before movies and cheap novels; frankie is the "cool cat" who comes back to town to get all the women, and he couldn't care less about his writing (which, predictably, eventually garners recognition); martin is a sleazy but friendly card-player; maclaine is the dumb, but very likable bimbo; frankie's blond love-interest is a snotty literary expert; frankie's brother is the successful guy who married into his wife's business and has a lousy marriage; and so on. clich'es.<br /><br />the story contains a couple of coincidences which are a little too far-fetched for my taste: frankie just happens to bump into his niece in a locale; his niece just happens to be meters away from her daddy when the latter kisses his secretary for the first time; and then there is the awful, stupid ending.<br /><br />in it, a drunk guy bent on killing frankie-boy somehow manages to find him in a carnival of all places! the place is utterly crowded, with the typical noise and chaos - plus it's happening in the evening - and yet the guy somehow finds frankie (in spite of being drunk as a doorknob) and shoots at him. but guess who he kills? maclaine. she jumps in front of the bullet to save frankie: a clich'e which comic-book writers might cringe at. this utterly pathetic, over-dramatic, and annoying ending certainly cannot please any, even semi-intelligent, viewer. and this happens on the same day that maclaine and sinatra got married! the writer of this nonsense seems to have read crappy dime novels his whole life - how else is the writing of this movie to be explained? there is even a card game in which a brawl ensues with frankie & martin vs. some clich'e caricatures out of the writer's "vivid" imagination. (it was like a damn western suddenly.) another dumb thing is the way sinatra was crazy about the boring snotty-nosed bimbo and pretty much ignored maclaine. as the movie progresses we find out that sinatra finds maclaine to be too dumb for him, just as the blond bimbo finds sinatra to be too low-class for her. there is a certain snobbism and disdain to be detected in the script regarding maclaine. maclaine is treated as worthless by everyone, while the blond bimbo is treated as a princess and an intellectual; the ironic truth is that the latter's character comes off as rather dumb and not at all as intellectual; her behaviour, comments, and opinions are mostly clich'ed, silly, confused, pretentious, and primitive. at least maclaine's character knows that she (maclaine) is dumb. there is another irony that i didn't fail to notice: sinatra had trouble finding an ending for his latest story - much like the writer of this movie, and that's why he came up with the corny, crappy finale.<br /><br />the film basically has a solid cast, and the photography is nice, but the script, though sometimes okay, relies to heavily on silly nonsense instead of on reality-based characters and events.<br /><br />if you're interested in reading my "biographies" of shirley maclaine and other hollywood intellectuals, contact me by e-mail.