this film offers absolutely no imagination in it's premise nor in it's execution but these are just two things that come to mind after watching this so-called comedy that has no energy to speak of. story is about nit-picky over analytical insurance risk manager reuben feffer (ben stiller) who finds his new wife lisa (debra messing) cheating on him with a scuba instructor (hank azaria) after only one day on their honeymoon. upon returning home reuben and his best friend sandy (philip seymour hoffman) go to a party and run into polly prince (jennifer aniston) whom they went to school with years earlier.<br /><br />*****spoiler alert***** polly is forgetful and sloppy and lives carefree which is the opposite of who reuben is as a person but they start to date and reuben starts to change as a person as he starts to try out new things such as salsa dancing and eating spicy foods. but one day lisa comes back and wants to remain married to reuben but he really doesn't want to but polly decides to leave as she doesn't believe in marriage to begin with.<br /><br />this film is the second directing effort by john hamburg who wrote two generally unfunny screenplays in "zoolander" and "meet the parents" but those two films seem like classics compared to this stale piece of drivel. it's very easy to say something is not funny but i think with this film it's even easier to figure out why. this film is totally and utterly predictable from start to finish with every scene looking as if it's only happening because of the ridiculousness of the script. hamburg who also wrote the script seems to have written this without any thought of trying something different and at times he seems to be trying to generate the same energy as "there's something about mary" but instead the events seem incredibly forced. did anyone really think the blind ferret was funny? if you do, your easy! a few times during the film characters would inexplicably have these emotional speeches that are supposed to summarize everything but all they achieve is overstating the obvious. stiller works a lot but maybe he should work less and just wait for the better scripts to come his way because this film doesn't work as a comedy or as a romance.