when this movie was first shown on television i had high hopes that we would finally have a decent movie about world war i as experienced by american soldiers. unfortunately this is not it.<br /><br />it should have been a good movie about wwi. even though it was made for television it is obvious that a real effort was made to use appropriate equipment and props. but the writing and directing are badly lacking, even though the makers of this movie obviously borrowed freely from quite a few well made war movies. war movie clich'es abound such as the arrogant general who apparently does not care a flip about the lives of his men. when will hollywood realize that, even though there have been plenty of bad generals, most combat unit generals have seen plenty of combat themselves and are not naive about what the average grunt experiences? the first part of this movie appeared to be "paths of glory" with american uniforms. except that "paths of glory" was emotionally gripping. later on there was chamberlain's charge (except uphill) from "gettysburg" and even the capture of the american soldier by a ring of enemy soldiers from "the thin red line". but in "the thin red line" the soldier was alone when captured. in this movie a ring forms around the new prisoner in the middle of a battle.<br /><br />if this movie used a military adviser they ignored him. even though the actors (and i never could forget they were actors while watching) mouthed military tactics i didn't see very much of it. the american soldiers would stand up to be shot while the germans attacked. and the infamous storm troopers, who were apparently blind, appeared to use no tactics whatsoever in their attack. in the real war, the tactics were what made storm troopers so effective. but the silliest scene was the attack of the german flamethrowers. in this scene the german flamethrower operators walked in a broad line towards the defending americans. if that had been real they would never have gotten close enough to use their flamethrowers before they had all been dropped by the defender's bullets.<br /><br />okay, so most war movies are unrealistic when it comes to the tactics shown. but it is still disappointing. but what really turned me off to this flick was the typical anti-war anti-military angle that movie makers seem to think is important. true, war is hell. but most american soldiers, even though they grumble and gripe, tend to believe in what they are doing and can be rather gung-ho about it. my grandfather served in world war i. and even though he died four years before i was born i have been told how proud he was of his service.