i tend to love everything the great late paul naschy (r.i.p.) ever was in. while not all films starring naschy are great, they all have a specific charm that can be found nowhere but in naschy-flicks, and they are always entertaining. there is no rule without exception, however, as "el mariscal del infierno" aka. "the devil's possessed" (1974) proves. while the film does have the specific naschy-flick-charm, it sadly drags far too much and gets really, really dull in-between. naschy stars as the evil baron gilles de lancr'e, who oppresses the people and uses black magic and bloody rituals to stay in power. when gaston de malebranche (guillermo bredeston), who fought side by side with gilles de lancr'e against the british, learns about the baron's evil behavior, he decides to turn against his former comrade in arms and help the people free themselves from the satanic baron's tyranny...<br /><br />directed by le'on klimovsky, who is best known for directing naschy in "la noche de walpurgis" ("the werewolf vs. the vampire woman", 1971), the film was scripted by naschy himself. naschy often scripted his own films, and one must say that he mostly did a better, more original job than it is the case here. "el mariscal del infierno" is mostly built up as a historical adventure rather than a horror film, and it gets quite boring throughout the middle. it often resembles the sword and sandal films from the 50s, only that this film is set in medieval times. the satanic part was probably only added because the great paul naschy's name is linked to the horror genre. the film has its good parts: paul naschy giving weird speeches, paul naschy looking weird, paul naschy doing satanic stuff, paul naschy torturing innocent victims, etc. but sadly, most of the film concentrates on the boring hero and the good guys, and these moments are boring. the female cast members are nice to look at, but, unlike most naschy films, this one features no nudity and sleaze. there is some gore, but it mostly looks clumsy and isn't as fun too look at as it is the case with most other naschy films. overall, "el mariscal del infierno" is only worth a look for my fellow naschy-enthusiasts. there are dozens of films starring the spanish horror deity which should be seen before this one, such as "el jorobado de la morgue" ("the hunchback of the morgue", 1973), "la orgia de los muertos" ("the hanging woman", 1973), "el espanto surge de la tumba" ("horror rises from the tomb", 1973), "latidos de panico" ("panic beats", 1983), "rojo sangre" (2004), or any of the 'waldemar daninsky' werewolf films. r.i.p. paul naschy. legends never die!