one of the more 'literate' lone stars, with time spent on character development and interaction, dialog and acting business. the opening scene sets the stage (literally) for the personalities of the gambler, kansas charlie (eddy chandler), and his buddy, john scott (john wayne) the rodeo (say roh-day-oh) star, both of whom are slightly randy. the film follows their adventures, as they try to best each other in the pursuit of the mexican juanita, and later in their pursuit of perky mary kornman, who has the inevitable evil brother (though he'd been led astray by the real villain, and wants to repent). and oh, of course, they're being wrongly accused of two crimes and have to serve jail time before escaping and being exonerated at the end.<br /><br />the high point is scott continually and deliberately ogling mary's butt in her grocery store, and knocking away the ladder she's standing on so he can catch her and grab her as she falls. it all seems a little contemporary for a 30s western, but it sounds better than it actually is. <br /><br />sadly, the exciting action elements we find in many other lone stars are sorely missing here. no yakima canutt. cheap and bad uses of stock footage of riders falling off horses. no george hayes. tedious stooge-like bi-play between scott and charlie, with charlie swinging at scott, scott stomping on his foot and then punching him (repeated two more times!). the skilled paul fix is underused. eddy chandler himself, here in his big star turn, is not really believable as a randy side kick. the villain looks too old and fat. so does chandler, who spent his later career in 300 more movies as an uncredited meatloaf. mary kornman, of the twenties "our gang" (see 'mary, queen of tots' 1925) is cute in her scenes with john wayne, but that's about it for this one. seeds of a better western lie buried here.<br /><br />p.s. the ultra-short colorized version, which looks good, moves along so fast, it's over if you blink more than once. thankfully though, the embarrassing scenes with eddy chandler have been cut.