this early john wayne lone star western has a bit more going for it than the run-of-the-mill oaters wayne had been making for lone star up until that time. for one, it has his old friend paul fix in it; fix, being a much better actor then the standard lone star villain, brings a much needed professionalism to the surroundings instead of the usual hesitant line-readings often delivered in these oaters. the plot, about mistaken identity, payroll robbery and murder, is as trite and perfunctory as you'd expect it to be in a 1930s low-budget western, but wayne's strapping good looks, easygoing charm and way with a line go a long way to making this more enjoyable. plump, balding eddy chandler isn't quite believable as wayne's womanizing "partner", and there's a running gag about something that happens whenever chandler and wayne are about to get into a fistfight that grows tiresome. on the other hand, wayne's love interest is played by none other than mary kornman, the little "mary" of the early "little rascals" fame. she is a grown-up 20-year-old now, blonde and cute as a button. most of wayne's leading ladies in these lone star/monogram "b's" were fairly bland and colorless, but mary is perky, cute and, yes, sexy. there's a scene in the general store, where she works, in which wayne asks her to get him a bottle of "nerve tonic", which happens to be on the top shelf, so she has to get a ladder and climb up to the top shelf. wayne's ogling her pert little backside as she ascends the steps, then again as she comes down, then again a few minuter later when he asks her to climb up and get him another bottle is surprisingly racy for a film made in 1935. wayne makes no attempt to hide the fact that he is definitely checking out her butt. anyway, it's an interesting little "b", not great, but not as choppy and random as many of his lonestar productions of the time. the final gunfight isn't handled all that well, and chandler gets somewhat irritating after a while, but all in all, it's worth a look, if only to see a cute and sexy mary kornman.