from actor and independent writer/director john cassavetes, a woman under the influence gives the viewer a look at a working class family with a problem of mental instability. the husband, nick (played by peter falk) is a blue collar worker who has trouble showing his wife, mabel (played by gena rowlands) the amount of attention that she deserves. from the onset of the film, it is obvious that mabel is very quirky and strange, but only a few minutes later it is clear that she is much more than that. crazy. bonkers. out of her damn mind. nick tries his hardest to hide this from his co-workers, and after she has a particularly strange incident at dinner, he asks her if she'll be okay, as if he's trying to deny mabel's illness. her problem only spirals from there.<br /><br />i did find some particular problems with this film. i guess these problems were mostly present in the story, and the way some of the character acted toward the end. mabel has been committed, because, frankly, she's nuts. then, six months later, she's ready to come out of the hospital, and her husband throws a party to welcome her back. he never acts stupid in the beginning of the movie. why would he invite all these people, some of them strangers to mabel, over to his house when his wife is in such a fragile state? it's simply idiotic. later, after mabel comes in the house, mabel's father has a huge outburst at nick, screaming at the top of his lungs about not wanting to eat spaghetti. his daughter has just gotten back from six months of rehabilitation, and the thing you want to do is keep her calm, and he goes nuts over spaghetti? a few minutes later in the film, nick brings mabel into the stairwell and forces her to do the things she did when she was mentally unstable; make her weird noises and gestures. didn't he send her there to make her better and not do those things? there were various other parts that occurred after this, but it would just be redundant to look at them in more detail. i guess i just had a serious problem with the decision by cassavetes to have his characters act in this way. it simply didn't make sense.<br /><br />however, although i had problems with the ending of the film, there was one aspect that really redeemed it; the acting. gena rowlands played an amazing crazy woman. there were times when i forgot she was acting, where i got so caught up in her wild gesticulations and crazy talk that i was actually scared of her. she was amazingly convincing and intense. however, i was also impressed by the rest of mabel's family. peter falk played a very strange character, and i almost thought he was crazy himself, because of the awkward way he handled his children, his job, and especially the situation with his wife. i also usually don't appreciate child actors. but the young people who played nick and mabel's children in this film were phenomenal. it really felt like they were mabel's children, because they seemed so attached to her and were so interesting in helping her with her problem. i think their performances are one of the things that kept this film together, and without them it would have made the film less realistic and less intense.<br /><br />in general i wasn't impressed by this film. the story was jumbled and unclear, and the characters acted in ways that made me wonder who wasn't insane in the movie. the only saving grace were brilliant lead acting roles of the longhetti family. their realistic dialogue and powerful acting kept the film together, and are probably the only reason the film has ever amounted to anything.