one of the most peculiar oft-used romance movie plots is this one: a seriously messed-up man falls in love with a terminally ill woman, who turns his life around before dying. occasionally this story is done well and realistically (as in "the theory of flight", an excellent weepie), but more frequently it's done like it is here, where as usual the heroine dies of "old movie disease". you know, the terminal illness that has no symptoms but one fainting spell and a need to lie down as you're telling your lover goodbye forever; and your looks aren't affected one bit (and since this is the 70's, neither is your sex life). this is one of the worst versions made of that particular story, where a very silly script puts two incompatible and unbelievable characters together, and they're played by actors who are completely at sea.<br /><br />this has got to be the worst performance of al pacino's career, and i say that after having seen "the devil's advocate" only two days ago! he plays a control-freak, emotionally constipated race-car driver, and plays an unlikeable character lifelessly. he seems to constantly be asking himself why he's staying around the grating marthe keller (so does the audience), and spends most of the movie just... standing there, usually with his mouth hanging open. the only time he shows any sign of life is towards the end, where his character proves that he's changed from uptight to liberated by doing a hilariously bad mae west imitation. hey, it *was* the seventies!<br /><br />marthe keller is equally terrible as the dying love interest; her character was conceived as bold and free and touching and uninhibited and full of life even though dying, and was probably meant to be played with an actress with the sensitivity of, say, vanessa redgrave or julie christie. instead, they got the expressionless face and heavy german accent of ms. keller, who comes across as more of a scary teutonic stereotype ("you vill eat ze omelet!") than anything like lovable. she's supposed to be reforming pacino and filling him with courage and spirit and all that, but it doesn't work that way, it's more like she's harping on his faults in the most obnoxious possible fashion. this makes for one of the least convincing romances in movie history, where you can't believe she'd be with someone she finds so worthless, and you can't believe he's with someone who gets on his nerves that much.<br /><br />some bad-movie fans call this a cult classic, mostly because of pacino's silly "liberating" mae west imitation. the scene is a scream, especially in context, but not worth sitting through the rest of the film for. no, only see the film if you're a serious bad-movie aficionado who is especially interested in studying extreme lack of chemistry between leading actors, or very bad casting (not only are the leads terrible, but pacino's other girlfriend is played by an actress who looks and sounds just likes keller with shorter hair, i got them totally confused). this isn't one of those laugh-a-minute bad movies like "the conqueror", it's just a really, really bad movie.<br /><br />